CHAPTER VIII – SORCERY SCARS



I took a few moments to breathe, then a few more moments to panic. My right hand was completely numb.

I slipped off the bracer, rubbing my wrist. I hoped it was just a circulation problem from sleeping with the bracer on too tight.

It wasn’t.

Tentatively, I tried to push a bit of mana through my hand. That was a mistake.

My hand ignited with agony, the muscles between my thumb and forefinger twitching uncontrollably as I fell backward and bit my tongue.

The ring kicked back in, but instead of soothing my pain, it just reversed it.

The inside of my hand felt like ice, the numbness worse than before.

Cradling my hand under my arm for warmth, I found my mana watch and pressed it against my attunement.

85/85.

My mana was fine. It’d even gotten a little higher as I slept. I hadn’t broken my attunement in the same way that Sera had, but I’d managed to do something else.

After several minutes of consideration, I clenched my functional fist and slipped off the ring of regeneration.

Over the next hour, feeling gradually returned to my hand. That feeling, however, was agony.

I may have made a mistake.

I tried to go back to sleep. That was hilariously impossible.

I could hear people chattering downstairs, presumably over breakfast. I had to put a pillow over my head to drown out the sound. Any additional sensory input felt like too much.

I cradled my hand under the covers for the next couple hours until it returned to some degree of normalcy. I could move my fingers. Trying to use any mana sent me back into a state of pain that could best be described as tear-inducing, so I avoided that.

The ring was nearby the whole time, tempting in some respects, but it had also been a part of what had probably caused the problem. By suppressing my pain so much, I’d let it build to the point where the ring and bracer must have numbed the whole area to prevent the pain from affecting me.

I really hoped I hadn’t just injured myself badly enough to leave mana scars. My understanding was that scars formed from repeated overuse, and I’d been pretty good about avoiding that until recently.

Hopefully remembering this pain would serve as a sufficient deterrent to making a similar mistake again.

It also taught me a valuable lesson. I needed to stop using the ring when I didn’t need it or I’d be facing consequences like this in the long run.

It was nearly noon by the time I crawled downstairs, disheveled and still cradling my half-functional hand. I’d missed the morning’s classes.

And there was a stranger in the kitchen.

Specifically, sitting in the middle of the kitchen table, legs crossed in what looked like it was probably some kind of meditative posture.

The newcomer was about my height, wearing layered scholarly robes in crimson. The robes were in a Dalenos style, folded across the center of their chest and constrained with a cloth belt. Their short hair was cut unevenly at a diagonal, as if it had been sliced once with a blade and no further care had been given. They held a half-eaten apple in one hand and a carafe of some kind of liquid in the other.

This was clearly someone who did not care in the slightest what others thought about them.

I liked them immediately.

“Look,” they were saying, “If you’re going to shower me with gifts, you need to make them interesting. If it’s something I could just buy and forget about, it’s not worth risking Wydd’s ire.”

Patrick intercepted me physically before I could approach and make introductions. He took me by the arm and silently walked me out of the room.

Whatwhatwhat—I panicked for just a moment at the unsolicited physical contact, but I allowed him to lead me to the entrance chamber.

“Sorry, sorry!” He let me go. I breathed a sigh of relief. “Believe me, you don’t want to go in there unprepared.”

I raised an eyebrow. “That was Sheridan Theas, wasn’t it? They’re wearing House Theas colors.”

I didn’t know a lot about House Theas, but I’d done some reading in advance of the meeting. They typically wore red, sometimes gold.

He waved a hand in a dismissive gesture. “Yeah, but we didn’t know what we were getting into. I mean, maybe Derek did, but he’s been hiding from them for most of the morning.”

“Okay? What exactly is such a problem?”

Patrick sighed. “They’re not interested in anything we’ve been offering. I think they’re enjoying watching us fret, though.”

That was unfortunate. “Has Keras offered to tell them about dominion sorcery? That’s forbidden knowledge, it seems like the most likely thing to work.”

“Keras isn’t here. We’re saving him as a last resort, since most people don’t even know he’s been staying with us. And he said he had business to attend to, something to do with that earring.”

“Probably trying to get it to work. Makes sense. Okay, I can offer the same. I obviously don’t know as much as Keras does, but I could regurgitate the lessons.”

“Don’t think it’ll help, but you can try. Just don’t mention Keras being around unless you need to. We could offer to arrange a meeting between them as a potential ‘gift’ for Sheridan.”

I didn’t think that’d be enough, but it wasn’t a bad idea. “Okay. Do they know about my new attunement yet?”

“Not sure. They didn’t say anything about it. Neither did we.” “Okay, good. Anything else I need to know?”

“Marissa isn’t here. She’s in class today. Probably not an issue, but figuredyou should know.”

I nodded. “What else?”

“Uh, just be warned that Sheridan is sort of... eccentric.” “I can deal with eccentric.”

I headed back into the kitchen. Sheridan’s gaze turned toward me as I approached.

I lifted a hand and waved. “Good morning. I’m Corin Cadence.” Sheridan picked up another apple from the table and threw it at me.

I stepped to the side, avoiding it, and bowed at the waist. “Pleasure to meet you.”

Honestly, who throws apples at people?Sheridan stared at me for a moment, then beamed brightly. “Your reflexes are commendable, Master Cadence. Are you here to help negotiate for my ‘dark magic’ as your retainer puts it?”

I shot Patrick a glance. He shrugged at me. “That’s what it sounds like.”

I turned back to Sheridan. “Definitely. Doesn’t matter where magic falls on the light spectrum as long as it works.”

Sheridan looked me up and down, appraising. I suspect Patrick or Marissa might have found that intimidating, but I was too used to being among nobles for that sort of thing to shake me in the slightest.

“I appreciate your pragmatism,” Sheridan began. “Unfortunately, I’m not certain we’ll be able to reach an agreement. Alas, the services your dear sister requires utilize forbidden magic. While I would be happy to help her in private, under conditions she could not observe, it seems your friends are hesitant to agree to such basic precautions. And that leaves me in a difficult position.”

I took a few steps closer and adjusted my style of speaking. If Sheridan wanted pretentious noble banter, I could play that game. “Ah, but certainly you must understand that in these difficult times, we must all take reasonable precautions for our well-being. My darling sister has already suffered so much, I fear I must take every due precaution to ensure she is not harmed again. It’s the only reasonable course of action, don’t you agree?”

Sera shot me a look that wasn’t quite a glare, but probably sat between a glare and a withering glance. She obviously didn’t like being treated like a fragile teacup, but I was playing to the tone of the conversation. Hopefullyshe’d understand, even if she didn’t like it.

“Of course, of course.” Sheridan shook their mug-carrying hand. “Family is most important, after all. And after all the tragedy you’ve suffered, I’m certain you couldn’t bear to lose someone else.”

Sheridan set the mug down, allowing them to make an exaggerated shrug with both hands. “But my loyalty is to Wydd first, and thus, I am bound to secrecy. Your friends have offered to exchange a few curios for the service, but are such trinkets worth the value of my word? Surely not.”

I lifted my gloved hand in a warding gesture. “I would not dare to insult you with the implication that you would accept a mere trifle in exchange for defying your sacred vows. But perhaps you would accept a trade that even Wydd would approve of?”

Sheridan fluttered their eyes. “If such a thing were to make itself manifest, surely I would consider it.”

“Allow me to begin by offering a small secret, but one of great personal significance.”

I slipped the glove off my right hand, displaying my new Arbiter attunement.

One of Sheridan’s eyebrows raised a fraction. “My, my. When someone banters about trading with a visage, I generally presume it to be all sand and no salt. I wasn’t aware you were an authority on the subject. Consider me thoroughly intrigued.”

Sheridan leaned a hair closer to me, then abandoned the slightness of that gesture to push themselves off the table and walk right up to me. “May I?”

I wasn’t quite sure what the question was. “Of course.”

Sheridan took my hand in theirs, lifted it to their mouth, and kissed my attunement mark.

I blinked, taking a step back unconsciously and breaking their hold.

What? Ick.

“Fascinating. Just forged, but such potential.” Sheridan smiled. “Yes, quite delightful. Sit. Tell me what you have to offer.”

I stared blankly for a moment, trying to process whether or not Sheridan had just used some kind of identification magic on my attunement during that exchange, or if they were just being strange.

After deciding that the answer was probably both, I backed away and took a seat as instructed. I took a breath, considering where to start. “Would you have any interest in learning about Pre-Attunement Era sorcery?”

“A good thought, but I already know about it. You’ll need to do better than that. And before you offer me any sorcery-imbued trinkets, be aware that your friends have already tried that. Unless you’re hiding away any legendary artifacts, I’m not interested.”

I glanced from side to side.

We...sort of are hiding some legendary artifacts, aren’t we? But Sheridan doesn’t know that, do they?I couldn’t tell, but I wasn’t going to let the conversation jump in that direction.

“Perhaps you’d be more interested in something more conventional, then?” I shifted in my seat, allowing me to reach the pouch on my side. Then I pulled out the newly-made bracer of regeneration. “A new take on a ring of regeneration. Wydd would approve of taking something representing innovation, perhaps?”

“I’m certain it’s lovely, but traditional innovation more of Tenjin’s purview. Or Ferras’, depending. Unless it regenerates something other than the body, I’m afraid it’s not forbidden knowledge, and thus it’s outside of Wydd’s domain.”

“Well,” I reached into my bag again. I’d planned on the conversation going this direction. I’d counted on it. “That bracer may only regenerate the body, but this one,” I removed the other new bracer from my bag, “Does something more.”

Sheridan looked the bracer over, inspecting the runes. I didn’t know if they could read them. “Oh? Something to repair bone more effectively, perhaps?”

I shook my head. “No, it’s much better than that. This is a bracer of manaregeneration.”

Sheridan chuckled. “Something that poisons the wearer isn’t exactly the world’s greatest gift, darling.”

Sera shot me a quizzical look. I’d told her that mana storage and regeneration items were impossible when she’d asked for one a few weeks before.

Weeks ago, I hadn’t known how to make one.

I smiled. I’d worked until late at night on it.

I was nearly certain it would work the way I wanted.

I clipped the bracer onto my wrist. “You’re aware, of course, that such poisoning is because of contamination from the creator’s mana?”

Sheridan nodded. “I am a healer, Master Cadence. Of course I’m aware of that. Meaning that if you’re about to show me how it works on yourself, that’s not proof of anything. Yes, you can probably make an item that regenerates your own mana safely. Presuming that you continuously recharge it yourself. Clever, but of limited usefulness to you, and completely useless to anyone else.”

I allowed myself to smile, feeling an uncommon bit of pride. “You’re quite right — that’s the best an ordinary Enchanter could do. I did manage to find discussions of an Emerald-level enchantment for mana regeneration that works, but it’s never been popular due to the extreme cost. It has standard functions for recharging its own mana, much like the healing ring does, but that’s only a small portion of the item.

“The majority of an Emerald-level mana regeneration item’s runes work toward purifying the mana inside it, making the item inefficient. But what if a purification function wasn’t necessary?”

Sheridan’s eyes flashed. “Your Arbiter attunement. You believe that if you enchant an item with purified mana, the mana it regenerates over time will also be untainted?”

“Allow me to demonstrate.” I closed my eyes, forming a crystal in my hand, and then took out my mana watch. My mana in my hand registered 81/85. I showed Sheridan the display. “Normally, I regain my mana over the course of an hour. Thus, regaining three mana would ordinarily take me just about two minutes.”

I pressed the rune on the bracer, activating it. “I used up all the mana that I initially filled it with. The only mana inside the bracer now should be mana generated by the item’s regeneration runes.” I pointed at the appropriate runes to illustrate. “It will quickly recharge my mana with the amount that it has stored within. It also has runes to detect my maximum mana, and will not attempt to recharge me when I’m full.”

I tapped my hand with the mana watch again. It had only been seconds, but my mana registered 85/85 now. I didn’t feel any new discomfort, although my hand was still in enough pain from the night before that I wasn’t sure if I would have been able to tell.

This was a bit of a gamble. I wasn’t certain that the mana inside the device was pure. But if it wasn’t pure, it was probably the same composition as my original mana, and therefore not harmful to me.

Whether or not it would be harmful to someone else was more questionable.

I showed her the display. “When the bracer runs out of stored mana, it will continue to assist my mana regeneration as quickly as it regains its own mana. And that’s at a rate of —”

Sheridan raised a hand. “That’s quite enough. You want to offer me something experimental? Something that might not even work properly, and that obviously could be dangerous to the user?”

“I’m reasonably confident that it will work... But yes.”

“How absolutely delightful. What’s that other trinket there, the one that you’re using to measure your mana? I’ve never seen anything quite like it.”

I turned the watch over in my hand. “Oh, this? It’s a mana watch. I made it earlier in the year. It checks your safe mana value like a Diviner would, as well as how much mana you have, and displays a value indicating the—““Yes, yes. I saw how it worked. And you made this device?” “Sure?”

“How widespread is the design?”

I shrugged. “I just tried to patent it, but I haven’t heard back on that yet. As far as I’m aware, only a handful of people know it exists.”

“Delightful. I’ll take it.” I blinked. “The bracer?”

“No, the mana watch. While I find the idea of a mana regeneration item delightful, and the idea that you were interested in trading me an untested one even more amusing, I would prefer something more practical. You may give me the mana watch now, in exchange for my services.

“When you have properly tested your mana regeneration item, I will consider another trade with you at a future date.” Sheridan opened a hand. “Given how creative you appear to be, I foresee great possibilities for a future business relationship between us.”

Their hand was open, waiting for the mana watch. I hesitated.

Of all the items I’d made, the mana watch was the one with the greatest personal value. It was how I’d managed to convince myself to use my mental attunement, even if only a little bit.

It felt necessary to me. It wasn’t just a magical item, it was a staple of my way of life now.

Could I use my mental attunement without it? I’d turned it on for a few minutes here and there, of course, but that wasn’t anything like what I’d been doing to train the attunement. That took either hours of keeping the attunement active or directly transferring mana from the attunement into an enchantment.

How could I do that without knowing how much mana I had left?I could make another one, of course. It wouldn’t feel the same as the original, but I’d survive.

I comforted myself with that thought. For the moment, it was enough to keep the fear at bay.

I put the mana watch in Sheridan’s hand. “Thank you. I’ll look forward to doing more business with you in the future, then.”

Sheridan slipped the watch into their robe. I felt something in my heart disappear along with it. “Excellent. Shall we get to work?” They turned toward Sera.

“What...like right now?” Patrick stammered.

Sheridan chuckled. “Why ever not? I imagine Miss Cadence would appreciate a resolution to this.”

Sera stood up and nodded once.

I agreed with Sheridan. “Are we doing this right here?”

“Goddess, no. There will be blood, and as much as it might amuse me to leave Derek’s kitchen strewn with viscera at some point, it would presently be in poor taste. I do believe Derek has a room upstairs for alchemical experimentation, however. That should have everything we need to take the precautions. Patrick, do be a dear and fetch Derek from whatever shadow he’s managed to hide in?”

“Sure thing!” Patrick waved and headed up stairs.

Patrick brought Derek back a minute later, and Derek grudgingly led the way toward his alchemy room. “I’ll have to clear off the table, but it should be a good place to work. Easy to clean, and I have healing potions ifsomething goes wrong.”

Sheridan chuckled. “Nothing is going to go wrong, darling. I’ve been doing this for years.”

Outside the door, Sheridan stopped me. “You probably don’t want to see this.”

I shrugged. “I’ve seen blood before. Sera, do you want me there?” Sera nodded emphatically.

“I’ll be in there, then.”

Sheridan turned back toward the door, but continued speaking. “No interrupting me. Regardless of how much she struggles or how bad it looks. You’ll only make things worse.”

With that said, she walked into the room. Derek was already clearing off a large central table, as he’d explained earlier. I recognized most of the equipment from Vellum’s lab and the one alchemy class I’d attended, but it wasn’t important right now.

We helped him move some of the potions onto shelves, then Derek waved at the empty table.

Sheridan nodded. “Good. Sera, take off your shirt. You can keep your undergarments on, but I need to be able to reach the whole front of your torso. Then lie down.”

Sera frowned, but followed their instructions. She waved me over, and I pulled up a chair to sit down next to her. She reached for my hand after she laid down, so I gave her one.

For the moment, her discomfort was going to be a lot worse than what I felt just from holding hands, so I’d tolerate it.

“Not going to give her a speech about how this won’t hurt?” Derek inquired.

“Why lie? All I can promise is that I’m not going to kill her. Provided none of you interrupt me. In fact, none of you are essential, so you should just leave. The brother can stay.”

Derek folded his arms. “I sort of own this house.”

Sheridan pointed at the door. “It’s a big house. Why don’t you find a mirror and gaze at the person you most adore?”

“Now, that’s not fair, Deni. There’s no point to staring at myself all thetime — I need to study other people for contrast.” He shook his head. “But fine, I’ll leave. Patrick, come on. I have this great story about when Deni had just turned twelve...”

“Oh, you wouldn’t.”

Derek waved as he dashed out the door. Patrick walked over to Sera before leaving, giving her a brief hug and some presumably comforting words before disappearing and closing the door behind him.

“Goddess, you’re all building this up too much. This isn’t a funeral.” Sheridan shook their head. “Sera, are you ready?”

Sera nodded.

I was thinking about whether or not I had any final questions when Sheridan snapped their fingers in front of Sera’s face.

Sera’s eyes slammed shut, and I felt a wave of drowsiness and vertigo. I tipped backward, but Sheridan caught me before I fell backward.

“Sleep spell. Wasn’t expecting to catch you with it, but physical contact must have passed a bit through.”

I raised a hand to pinch myself in the arm, trying to shake off the sensation. “Ugh. Could have warned us?”

“Nonsense. If she was ready for it, she’d have braced her mental defenses, even unconsciously. The spell probably still would have taken hold, but I wasn’t going to take the risk. Steady yourself.”

I did my best. I’d read a little bit on how to defend myself against mental magic after seeing what had happened to Derek, and that little bit had taught me something important. Since I had an attunement with mental mana, that would give me a degree of resistance, even if mine wasn’t built for casting mind-influencing spells — and I could actively resist mental magic by converting more of the mana in my body into mental mana. By cycling that fresh mental mana through my body, I could burn away the spell.

So, I started doing that. It wasn’t fast.

I was so distracted with trying to break the spell that I scarcely noticed when Sheridan started the procedure in earnest. Sheridan pressed their hand against Sera’s neck, frowned, and shook their head. “More severe than I expected, but still workable. Let me see the attunement.”

Sheridan flipped Sera over and pressed a hand against the modifiedattunement mark over her lungs. “Remarkable. I’ve never seen anything quite like this. I can sense the damage, but I’m not sure how much I can treat. The throat will come first, and then I’ll see if I can handle making any improvements here.”

I nodded weakly, still focusing on cleansing my mind of the sleep effect. It wasn’t as easy as when we’d practiced, presumably because I wasn’t ready for it. Also, potentially because Sheridan’s spell was more powerful than the ones we’d used in training.

That...seemed odd, though. “How’d you do a sleep spell? Aren’t you a necromancer? That doesn’t sound like a sleep magic type.”

“Obviously that wasn’t my first attunement, darling, just like Arbiter wasn’t your own first attunement. Restricted attunements are almost never given to people without a previous attunement.” Sheridan flipped Sera over again, then pressed a hand against Sera’s neck and closed their eyes. “I’m going to need you to come up here and hold Sera still.”

I stood, stumbled, and steadied myself. “Okay.” “Sit behind her.”

Sheridan sat Sera up with surprising ease. I pulled my hand out of Sera’s grip, which was harder than it sounded, and then sat behind her. “What do I do?”

“You need to make sure her head is facing downward, but support her neck so that it doesn’t have too much stress.”

“Shouldn’t we just lie her facing down?”

“I need to be able to access the entire front of her neck.”

I nodded, taking the position behind Sera. I essentially was using myself as the back of a chair, which led to another question. “Shouldn’t we just use a chair, then?”

“She’d just fall out of one. Hold her still.”

I held her still, at least as well as I could. My mind was definitely clearing up, even though I was too focused on Sera now to actively try to convert my own mana and fight the effects.

“Now we begin.” Sheridan tapped Sera’s neck and their fingers began to glow.

Sera’s body jerked, and she almost fell off the table immediately. I held her as steady as I could, but she continued to tremble.

Sheridan backed off after a few moments, the glow fading from their finger.

Sera coughed, and that cough produced more blood than I was comfortable with.

“What—”

“Relax, Corin. The blood is supposed to be there. Let her cough.”

There was a surprising surge of anger while Sera continued to cough messily onto the floor. She didn’t wake up in the process, which seemed miraculous, but that sleep spell must have been stronger than I’d expected.

“We’re moving her to a chair now,” Sheridan explained.

Of course we are.

I helped Sheridan move Sera to the closest chair. It was, as I’d expected, much easier to hold her in place that way. “You sure you’ve done this before?”

“Of course. I’ve just never done it outside of a hospital.”

I...didn’t know how to respond to that, but there was definitely some anger involved.

Derek presumably knew.

Sera might have known as well.

But operating on someone outside of a hospital without any prior experience sounded like a terrible risk to me.

Maybe that was why they didn’t tell me.

Once Sera was secure in the chair and her coughing had died down, Sheridan reached forward and touched Sera’s neck again. The glowing reappeared around Sheridan’s fingers, but Sera didn’t spasm this time.

Not until Sheridan’s fingers began to move further down her neck.

I held Sera as steady as I could, grinding my jaw in a mixture of fear and frustration.

Minutes passed. Apparently, the damage went all the way down Sera’s esophagus, which was why she was having such difficulty with speaking.

More time passed. More coughing from Sera. More blood.

I’d expected that removing the physical scar tissue would be some sort of surgical process; it wasn’t. At least, not in this case.

Sheridan was transforming it. Partially liquefying it, if I wasn’t mistaken. Thus the coughing, the blood, and everything else she was coughing up. This was feeling more and more awful the more I thought about it.

“Don’t worry, we’ll make Derek clean it up.” Sheridan gave me a knowing look.

That was not what I was worrying about at all.

Sheridan began tracing their fingers back upward, the glow shifting in color to a bright green. Healing, I realized.

I wished I had trained with life mana more. If I had, maybe I would have been able to sense what Sheridan was doing a little better, or even helped. As it was, I had only the barest comprehension of how healing magic worked, and I certainly wasn’t ready to attempt it. That was the kind of thing to practice on scratches, not on internal injuries.

I’d definitely start studying it soon, though. My attunement wasn’t strictly made for healing, but just having life mana meant I could do a bit of it, even if I wasn’t ever going to be an expert.

It only took another minute before Sheridan finished the process of moving up Sera’s body, then back down without any visible glow on their hand, presumably to double check the work.

“Throat and esophagus are done to the best of my ability. Even with my healing, however, the recovery time will be significant — and she may never regain the full use of her voice. There was simply too much damage. She should be able to whisper almost immediately, but she shouldn’t. Tell her to restrain herself from trying.”

“For how long?”

“At least a few days.”

I nodded. “Would it be safe to give her a regeneration item to speed up the healing, or would that make more scarring?”

“Regeneration items should be fine, but it’s not going to help that much.

I’ve already healed most of what can be fixed with healing — her body needs to acclimate to the change. But no, it wouldn’t hurt to give her an item if you have one. And she still shouldn’t be trying to talk.”

That was all good to know. “Even being able to whisper in a few days would be a huge improvement. When do you expect her to be able to talk at normal volume, if at all? And what about her attunement?”

“Months, probably, if she recovers that much at all. As for the attunement, I’ll need to use a different technique for that. Mana scars aren’t quite the same as traditional scar tissue. They’re more like clusters...she’s waking up.” Sheridan snapped her fingers, and Sera slumped down again.

I didn’t feel the effects this time, so presumably Sheridan was a bit more careful.

“Now, then. The mana scars are different. I can’t extract them entirely; I need to change them back down into a usable form. Given how severe her scars are, this will likely take several treatments, but we can do the first one today. Let’s lay her back down on the table.”

We did so, placing her face down. Sheridan put their fingers on Sera’s attunement again, then closed their own eyes. “Don’t say anything. Be silent and still.”

I complied.

Sheridan’s fingers began to glow again, but not with a solid color. This time, I could see tiny runes — the size of handwriting, maybe smaller - tracing across Sheridan’s fingers and wrist. I’d never seen anything quite like it.

Then the tiny runes flowed off their hand, into the attunement mark.

Sera twitched once, then let out a sound like a hiss. Then she settled again. “Done.” Sheridan pronounced. “At least for now. This is not a complete fix— in fact, it may not do anything at all on its own. Make sure to tell her what I told you, and also, tell her not to even try to use her attunement for a few days.”

“You don’t want to explain yourself?”

“Obviously not. Talking to people is awful, and I’ve done more than my tolerance for the day. She’ll wake up in a half hour or so. I’ll be long gone by then.”

“You’re not going to stay and see if she has any side-effects? Complaints?” “I’ll do another diagnosis spell on her before I leave.” Sheirdan tappedtheir fingers on Sera. “There. All done. She’s fine. I’m leaving.”

I sighed. “And if she needs to find you for a second treatment...?”

“I’ll contact her directly. Her little mark has gained my interest, so you can be certain I’ll try to follow up. I’m not sure I can fix damage this extensive, but I enjoy a challenge.” Sheridan turned and headed toward the door. “Now,if you need anything else...” They smirked. “I suppose you’ll just have to track me down.”

“And how would I do that?” I asked.

Sheridan reached into a bag at their side and retrieved a business card. It read:Sheridan Theas — Professional Necromancer Raising the Dead, Not Prices*For Inquiries, Contact House Theas*Not actually raising the dead, eitherThere was no address, just a single glowing rune below the text.

I recognized it as a form of targeting rune. In this case, a type designed for a non-enchanter to store a bit of their mana. This type was usually used to identify the owner of an item so that it could not be used by anyone else. In this case, though, I got the impression that it was more like asignature.

When I looked up after reading the card, Sheridan was gone. I had the distinct feeling I’d just been flirted with.

Maybe.

That was strange on a number of levels, not the least of which was my half-dressed and unconscious sister being next to me.

The pools of blood on the floor weren’t helping the atmosphere, either.

And I still wasn’t quite sure where I stood on the idea of flirting or relationships in general.

I tried not to think about it. Instead, I slipped the bracer of regeneration outof my bag and slipped it on Sera’s wrist. Unlike the ring, I could activate the bracer myself, so I turned it on.

I hoped it would help.

After that, I pretty much just stared blankly at the doorway for a while. I did hold Sera’s hand again, though.

I held it until she woke up.

It was silly. I didn’t know if she could even tell.

But she’d done the same for me when I’d been hurt, so the idea of it clearly meant something to her.

After a while, it barely bothered me at all.

