CHAPTER VI – TWO HEADS ARE BETTER THAN ONE



I tried to bury my worries about Tristan in my studies, but my mind kept wandering.

How had he survived?Did Mother and Father know?And, perhaps most importantly, why was he involved in kidnapping Tenjin?I needed to talk to him directly at some point. He had ample chances to tell me about his situation through the book if he had wanted to. He’d even sent that hooded figure to talk to me in the spire.

That couldn’t have actually been him, could it? Could his human body have been taken away?I shook my head. It was much more likely that the creature I’d seen was some sort of solid illusion, like those created with the Shadow attunement.

I needed answers.

I reached under my bed and retrieved Trials of Judgment.

I’d been procrastinating about reading the Mysterious Book Entity’s reply to my question. I’d been afraid to face the possibility that it really was Tristan.

But that was absurd, and I knew it.

Why would I give up when I was finally this close to my goal? I could do better than that.

I could be better than that.

I flipped open to the most recent page and looked for the Mysterious Book Entity’s latest reply.

Corin,Your skepticism is warranted. In your position, I wouldn’t believe a presumably deceased family member was writing to me, either.

There are any number of other explanations, after all.

Perhaps I’m simply using the name “Tristan” to get inside your head, after having watched your behavior in the spires. Maybe I need to manipulate you for some sort of task.

But ask yourself first — why would I bother with a ruse on that scale?What advantage would there be for me to cultivate a single student as an asset? Providing you with a legendary weapon and an escape from the spire?The answer is obvious.

With my level of influence, there are clearly more powerful tools available.

So, there’s your logical answer. There’s no good reason for anyone else to be bothering.

But it’s still easy to argue that, perhaps, it was simply an issue of opportunity. Maybe I didn’t have the ability to place the book wherever I wanted, and it was your choices that led us to this discussion.

Maybe I’m simply taking advantage of what information I can glean about you.

I’ll offer you another form of proof, then.

When we were children, Father made an effort to introduce us to many prominent families.

He was an excellent performer, parading us as prodigies. Martial talents unlike any seen in a generation. We were winning children’s duels almost as soon as we could walk.

And while displaying our dubious talents, he made connections, and reacquainted himself with old friends. Friends in higher places than his own.

We were taught to be proper, to be polite, and to never say too much about the state of affairs at home.

The intent of it all was quite obvious, in retrospect. Our family’s flames hadbeen fading since the war, and he hoped to secure our name through profitable marriages.

Do you remember Yunika? Perhaps you’ve seen her more recently than I have.

I remember how we used to talk about how perfect it was that she was my age and her sister was yours.

I’d joke that we could be “double brothers” if we married them both. You argued it would be “triple brothers”, since we’d be brothers by blood, and brothers by marriage twice-over.

Father would have been pleased if things had gone that way, I’m sure.

I remember Yunika. I think of her fondly at times. Other times, I regret that I had so little foresight. So little understanding of why Father introduced us to those girls in the first place, and what our fates might have been if things had gone the way he wanted.

So, yes.

I am your brother.

I have thought of you often in the years we have been apart.

In asking the Voice of the Tower about me, it is clear that you thought of me as well.

That pleases me, though it reflects a weakness in your character. You should have grown beyond me long ago.

Still, I must admit to a degree of satisfaction that I left a lasting mark.

It will make it easier for you to work for me when we are reunited, I think. But I have gone on too long, and I have business to attend to.

Yes, I am Tristan Cadence. I am your brother.

And I am alive.

I took a breath.

He always did have a flair for the dramatic. Yunika. How long has it been since I’ve seen her? I shook my head. Three years, at least.

I’d seen her sister more recently, at least from a distance. I’d kept it that way. The alternative was uncomfortable.

I lifted a pen and wrote a reply.

Dear Mysterious Brother Entity,I believe you might be who you claim to be. You’ll excuse some continued skepticism until I see you in person.

I paused, uncertain.

What could I possibly say?The answer was obvious, but difficult.

I missed you.

I paused again, debating.

But I am also deeply concerned.

You have implied a connection with what Orden was planning. For fear that others can read these messages, I will not write any details here.

If you are, in fact, working with the organization that was responsible for those things, I need to know why.

And if you believe I will work for you, or with you, I will need a firmer understanding of what I am getting into.

Do not take my help as a guarantee, my supposed brother. I miss Tristan Cadence, and I love him.

I’ll decide when I meet you if you qualify to call yourself by that name. Tell me how, where, and when I can find you.

I was debating writing more when I heard a knock on my bedroom door. I swiftly tucked the book away under my bed.

“Ey, Corin, it’s me.” Marissa’s voice.

I opened the door and waved. “Hey Mara. It already time for training?”

Marissa shook her head. “Naw, ain’t that. Was hopin’ you’d be willing to ‘elp me with a lil’ favor.”

I raised an eyebrow. “What sort of favor?”

“Need a bit o’ help with one of my exams. You got a few?”

I nodded. “Sure, but if it’s studying, I’m not sure I’m going to be all that useful. Patrick is much better about history and artifacts and such, and Sera is the expert on general magic.” I was probably the best versed with the spires themselves, but I didn’t think any of us had classes on those yet.

“Not studyin’, I’m afraid. Need an extra set of hands for one of my finals.

Two person test, but I lost my partner.” I frowned at that. “Lost?”

“Keri failed out of the semester. Someone figured ‘er out, I guess.” “Figured her out?”

“Guess she was a spider, and turned ‘er in. She lost a whole bunch of points, so she got failed straight out.”

I hadn’t been paying much attention to Spider Division, but it sounded pretty brutal. “I hadn’t realized the spiders lost points if they got reported.”

“Yup. But they get extra points the longer they go without being found. Don’t know the details, teacher just told me a bit when he explained why my partner wasn’t showin’ up.”

I nodded at that. I’d missed my first chance to report spiders — it had apparently happened while I was out in the middle of nowhere with Keras after the incident with the spire. I’d have one more chance right before the end of the year, but I didn’t have enough information to go on to report anyone yet.

Right now, though, I had more pressing concerns. “Okay, what’s this exam? Don’t know if I’ll be able to help with it.”

“Oh, I think you will. It’s for Monster Hunting class.”

I blinked. “You have a Monster Hunting class?” I hadn’t even seen that on the list.

“Yup. It’s one of the ones the heavy combat students get.”

I was immediately a little jealous. I didn’t like actually killing things, but I assumed it would involve fighting illusory creatures like in our fake spire tests. That was both fun and good practice. Still, it seemed weird that she’d pick me for a heavy combat exam. “Wouldn’t Patrick be a better match? He’s got a combat attunement, and he tends to know a lot about monsters.”

“Yeah, but ‘ese out doin’ somethin’ already. Been goin’ out a lot lately.”

I nodded. “Maybe he’s out with Derek. Derek seems to go out practically every night.”

Marissa chuckled. “Doubt that Derek wants Patrick with ‘im while he’s goin’ to taverns lookin’ for lady friends, Corin.”

I blinked. “Is that what Derek’s doing? I just assumed he was...training, or something.”

“You’re adorable sometimes, Cadence. Anyway, test?”

I thought about her offer. “I mean, it sounds fun, but don’t you have any friends with combat attunements?”

She shook her head. “Most of ‘em already have teams. And Sera still ain’t in fightin’ shape.”

That last part was certainly true. “Okay, sure, I’ll help. What’s this test involve?”

Mara grinned. “Oh, yer gonna love this.”

***I whistled in appreciation at the setup. We were north of the campus, in an area set aside for large-scale training exercises. We were only a few miles from the school proper, but it looked like we were in the middle of the wilderness. Tall trees stretched out in three directions, and the area in front of us was a hillside with only a single obvious entrance.

That entrance led into what appeared to be an abandoned mine. I could see a mine cart just inside, filled with rubble, and a track that the cart must have sat on at some point.

It was pitch black beyond that point, but Marissa held a lantern in her left hand, and I could see some unlit torches along the wall.

Before we’d been sent here, we’d been given a few instructions by her teacher. “In this scenario, you are investigating an abandoned silver mine in the Unclaimed Lands. The miners unearthed an underground passage, which led into a monster lair. One of the miners claimed they saw a glowing swordinside before they fled the area.”

“We supposed to clear out the monsters or get the sword?” Marissa asked. “The sword is your primary objective,” the teacher explained. “Yoursecondary objective is to get out unharmed. Clearing the monsters out orotherwise securing the mine is a tertiary objective.”

I nodded at that. “Do we have any idea what types of monsters are in there?”

“None. The miners who survived saw only shadows.”

With that little information, we didn’t know exactly what to prepare for, so we’d have to think quickly once we found anything. After a few more minutes of preparation, the teacher had teleported us here to get started.

Marissa led the way into the mine. I followed close behind. I wasn’t allowed to use Selys-Lyann for this test, since I’d nearly killed myself in one of the tests with it. As such, took a few minutes to repair my demi-gauntlet by attaching the metal portion to a newly-purchased glove. Then I slipped the scabbard containing my transference sword onto my belt.

It was a little different from going into the spire, but I felt a familiar tension in my shoulders.

And I planned to approach the scenario in a similar way.

This should be good practice.

I had to duck down to avoid hitting my head on the low ceiling, and the light from a single lantern was far from ideal. Still, we had an easy enough time making it down the first corridor. It was wide enough for us to walk two abreast, but I stayed behind Mara for the time being, planning to support her with ranged attacks when we inevitably ran into something we had to fight.

Our first challenge, however, was a fork in the path. The path to our right led upward, and I could see some sort of light source in the distance. The left path led downward, into deeper darkness.

“Left or right?” I asked.

Mara frowned, glancing from side to side. “I’m nay sure. S’pose if monsters are in the dark, it’s the dark we should follow.”

I nodded at her logic. “We’ll probably want to explore both routes eventually, but we may as well start down there.”

“Right	then.”	Marissa	led	the	way,	her	lantern	seeming	woefully insufficient.

As we descended further, I began to hear what sounded like running water, but I wasn’t sure if it was my imagination.

We continued until Mara raised a hand, gesturing for me to stop. “Down ‘ere.”

I paused, ducking and squinting. It took several moments before I could see what she was talking about — a hair-thin thread near ankle level. I blinked. “A tripwire?”

“Or something alike, aye. I see more of ‘em up ahead, too. Gonna have to watch our toes.”

I winced. My vision was far from great. “All right. We’ll take it slow.”

Mara stepped over the glimmering strand first, and I cautiously followed. I could see more of them up ahead, just like she said, crisscrossing the hallway and intersecting with each other.

I ducked under a patch of them, then the wires got thicker and thicker up ahead. That made them more obvious, but the passage was thinning, making it harder to avoid them.

We reached an area where the path narrowed to single-file and saw something thick and shiny on the ground ahead, surrounded in rubble. It was about as tall as the hallway...and about as wide, too. It was made of solid metal and covered in those tripwires.

Mara knelt down as we reached it. “It’s a door. Torn right off the hinges.” She glanced from side to side. “And by the looks of it, it was attached to solid rock.”

I blinked, examining the door with her. It was made out of metal and as thick as my arm. It looked like the type of thing I’d expect to see on a bank vault. I saw a few runes on the surface, too. They weren’t charged, but they were similar to the ones I used on a shield sigil. They must have reinforced the already solid door with magic when it was still intact.

It must have taken tremendous force to break it down.

Or, more likely, just break the rock around it and knock it over, I realized. “Guess we’re up against something big. Or at least strong. An oni, maybe.” Marissa kept going, and I cautiously followed.

“Oni?”

“Similar to an ogre, but a bit smarter. Generally scary looking, often wields an iron club. I don’t see an ogre being smart enough to lay wires like this, butan oni might.”

I glanced back at the door as we continued. There were an awful lot of strands in that particular area. They were extremely obvious, but there were so many of them that they were still difficult to avoid.

Maybe they were just there to distract us from something else? It was certainly possible.

We stepped and wove through a patch with a half-dozen strands at different angles, then crawled on the floor to avoid a section that took up the whole top of the passageway.

As we advanced, I realized a few important things.

First, it was strange that the strands were glimmering like they were metallic. I wasn’t an expert on tripwires, but that sounded like it was a bad idea in a place like this — the reflection on our light made them more obvious.

Second was that they didn’t seem to have any obvious anchors points in the floors or walls. No nails, no screws, nothing holding them into place.

Third, they didn’t seem to be attached to anything that would set off a trap or alarm. In fact, I didn’t see any traps or alarms at all. The only thing the strands connected to was each other.

It was that last bit that gave it away. “Uh, Mara? I don’t think these are tripwires.”

We could see the cavern opening up just ahead. Mara paused, turning her head toward me. “Oh?”

I thought I heard the slightest hint of movement up ahead. “I think they’re spider webs.”

“Spider...?”

She glanced back toward the large room, then threw herself to the side just in time to avoid a spray of green liquid coming from the center of the room.

I stepped back, avoiding the resulting puddle. That was good, because it sizzled and burned the stone.

Acid? That’s not good.

“Heh heh heh.” I heard a cackling coming from the room ahead of us, but I couldn’t see anything.

“Metallic webs...of course!” Marissa snapped her fingers. “It’s a jor...uh,joro... spider woman!”

I had pretty much no idea what she was talking about. I’d already fought one giant spider, though, and I had no desire to fight more.

Unfortunately, I could already see a handful of person-sized spiders descending from the roof of the cavern ahead. The webbing they were using wasn’t the metallic kind — that must have been from the other creature Mara was describing, but I couldn’t see that yet.

Beyond the spiders, I could see a raised section of stone with a single glowing green crystal on it.

“We fighting or leaving?” I asked. “We’re going in,” she replied.

Then she rushed into the center of the room and punched a spider in the head.

“Fair.” I drew my sword and followed. Something snagged my leg only a moment later.

I stumbled, but I’d been ready for this. I managed to keep my balance, sweeping my sword down and severing the web.

I spun, following the webbing to its source, and I saw her.

She was six feet tall, with black hair that reached all the way down to her feet. From the neck down, she was wrapped in that same metallic webbing that we’d seen on the walls, and she had a strand in her hand that I’d just severed.

“My, my. What a sharp sword you have there.” The woman smiled at me. Meanwhile, Marissa grabbed another person-sized spider around the neck,lifted, and threw it over her shoulder. I heard a crack as it landed, then she kicked backward. It went limp.

Three more spiders descended around her as she moved toward the back of the chamber. “Resh it. Don’t talk to her, Cadence. She can compel men to do her bidding with her voice. Just stick her with something sharp.”

I looked back at the dark-haired woman. “Sorry, purely business. I’m sure you understand.”

I advanced, swinging my sword upward in an arc and sending a shockwave of force in her direction.

She waved a hand and the webbing around her rippled, shifting into ashield of webbing, blocking the attack. “Now that’s a rude way to start a conversation. I really wish you’d stop.”

I shook my head. “Nah.”

I took a few steps forward, barely avoiding another strand of webbing that was on the floor at ankle height.

Her shield of webbing shifted into a long blade. “So rude. You invade my lair, tear down my webs, fight my children...”

“...Cut you in half...” I continued, taking a gamble and jumping forward.

The room had a high ceiling. High enough, I guessed, that I could use the ring of jumping safely. So I did.

The sudden surge of transference mana sent me fifteen feet in the air, and I flew over the spider woman with my sword raised to strike as soon as I landed.

She spun, hurling a glob of webbing at me. I slashed that apart on instinct, and the force sent the halves apart, but some of it still brushed against me and stuck to my arms.

Disgusting, but fortunately, not enough to stop me.

I landed and swung again, this time directly at the spider monster. She reshaped the webbing around her into a sword, blocking my own.

The transference mana around my blade began to cut through her webbing, but slowly.

And it had gotten stuck.

“You should really stop struggling. We could have such a good time together if you’d just listen to me.”

“Shut it, spider hag.” Marissa threw something — which I belatedly realized was the glowing green crystal I’d seen earlier — and it thumped into the spider woman’s forehead.

She recoiled at the impact, and a trickle of blood dripped from where it had struck. She wasn’t particularly resilient, at least.

“Ow!” The woman rubbed her face. “That really hurt!”

“No seducing my friend!” Mara absently punched another spider in the face, then side-stepped a jet of webbing that one of the others fired at her from its spinneret.

“I’m just trying to have a polite conversation!” The spider woman spat a glob of acid in Marissa’s direction. Marissa dodged, but stepped into a glob of webbing on the floor nearby, getting her foot stuck.

I jabbed my sword at the spider woman while she was distracted, but she managed to avoid the swing by stepping to the side. “What sort of conversation?”

The spider woman shook her head. “Well, for one thing, I was wondering if you’d be opposed to me eating you. I mean, it’s really hard to get quality food down here, and people are just the best. Don’t you think?”

“Eew!” Marissa started pulling at her stuck leg, then punched another spider that tried to bite her. “We are not letting you eat us!”

The spider woman reeled back like she was about to spit again. My sword was still stuck in her webbing, so I stepped in and punched her.

“Ow! So rude!” She pulled back, ripping my sword free from the webbing in the process. “Okay, fine, then! You could at least bring me a light snack. Maybe some kobolds?”

Kobolds?Were those the source of the lighting upstairs?“We are not feeding you people!” Marissa managed to tear herself free, but a spider slammed into her from behind, knocking her over.

It raised its head, ready to bite.

I spun and threw my sword directly through the creature’s open mouth. The spider fell limp.

“Rude!” The spider woman complained. “That was one of my favorite kids!” She frowned. “I think. They’re so stupid. And so hard to tell apart.”

She turned toward me and reshaped the webbing around her into a net. “If you won’t bring me any kobolds, I’m just going to have to eat you whether you like it or not.”

I raised both hands. I was unarmed now, and I didn’t like my odds of fighting her in close quarters without a weapon.

And she was really chatty. Maybe I could play with that.

“I’m not going to bring you any sentient creatures to eat. And you can’t eat us. But I do, have, uh...” I reached into my bag. “Some beef jerky?”

She narrowed her eyes. “What is this...‘beef jerky’?”

I blinked. I hadn’t expected that to go anywhere.

Marissa pulled my sword out of the head of the spider I’d killed, making a sickening crunching sound. “She’s just distracting you so she can web you and eat you, Corin.”

It was probable that Marissa was right, but I also wasn’t in a good fighting position. Buying time was an advantage for the moment, not a disadvantage.

I wasn’t feeling any sort of weird magical attraction to this creature, and it did just seem to be asking for food.

I pulled some beef jerky out of my bag. “Preserved cow meat with a variety of spices. It’s a little tough, but the spice gives it a lot of flavor.

The spider woman sniffed the air. “It’s meat, though?”

I nodded. “Yeah. It’s a little tough, because of how it’s been dried, but...” “Give it here.”

I handed the beef jerky over to her, and she immediately tore off a piece and began to chew.

Her mouth twisted, her eyes narrowed, and then... “This is delicious.”

She kept eating. “Do you have any more?”

“A little bit. If you’ll call off your other spiders and agree to give us safe passage, I’ll give it to you.” I opened my hand in a giving gesture.

The spider woman seemed to consider that.

Then, she swallowed, and let out a screeching cry into the air. The remaining spiders retreated back to the ceiling.

Marissa blinked. Then she raised her sword and took a step forward. “Not a step closer, sword girl. Meat man, give me more food.”

I reached into my bag, pulling out another piece of jerky. The spider woman reached for it, but I pulled my hand away. “Agree to give us safe passage.”

She frowned. “But I don’t want to.”

Are you kidding me?“Look, this is a good deal for you. Us humans are bland and not seasoned at all. This beef jerky is much tastier.”

The spider woman folded her arms. “I don’t know... You’re probably right, but you have a lot of meat on you. It’s really a quality versus quantity argument.”

I waved the beef jerky at her. “There’s also the chance that we’d kill you if we keep fighting.”

“Nah.” She shook her head. “Not with all the webs you’re stuck in.”

I blinked, looking around. There were strands of webbing stuck to the back of my legs and my shirt.

When did that happen?I tensed, but I could still make this work.

“I’ll destroy the jerky with my magic if you attack us.” It was a complete bluff. I didn’t have fire magic or anything similarly destructive.

But I doubted she knew that.

“No!” She reached forward, but I moved my hand again. “Okay, fine, fine.

You can go. Just give me that food.”

“I’m going to have my friend cut me free first, then I’m going to give you the jerky.”

“Fine, fine. Ugh. You humans are so hard to deal with.”

Marissa moved forward, cut me free, and handed the sword back to me. I held it in my off-hand while I cautiously offered the remaining jerky to the spider.

She snatched it out of my hand with great fervor, then put it straight in her mouth.

She closed her eyes, obviously savoring the flavor.

That helped me realize something important. “You’re...not an illusion, are you?”

She opened her eyes again, beginning to chew. “Oh, no, little human. I’m quite real.”

I’d interacted with plenty of convincing solid illusions during the other tests, and I knew they could talk, but this spider woman was so animated and eccentric that she reminded me of Vanniv.

It was possible they were being controlled by a very enthusiastic actor, but I didn’t get that feeling.

This was an actual monster. Most likely a summoned one — they wouldn’t risk putting us down here with a natural monster. It probably had instructions to act a certain way, but it also still clearly had senses and instincts of its own.

I could work with that.

“You mentioned kobolds. Are those what we’ll find on the upper floors?”

She shook her head, continuing to eat. “Mm, no, not here. The ones that were in this mine got eaten already.”

“By you?”

The spider woman shook her head. “No, no. By the thing that lives below.” Well, that sounded foreboding.

“What sort of thing?” Mara asked.

“Don’t know. I’m not going down there. I’ve got a nice lair right here.

Dark, comfortable, lots of food wandering into it...” “We are not food,” I reminded her.

“Fine, fine.” She continued to chew on the jerky. “You can go.”

I reached into my bag. The jerky had been the only trail food I’d brought with me. I had the flask that gave me an endless water supply, but no other food in the bag.

But I did have some food stored in the Jaden Box, and I did have the box stored in my bag.

Could I get more out of this creature if I traded her more food?Maybe, I decided, but it’s not worth the risk of using the Jaden Box in a position where I’m clearly being watched.

If another teacher knew I had the Jaden Box, that could raise questions that I didn’t want to answer.

I was still pondering my approach when Mara asked something important. “Ya know, we’re trying to find a magic weapon down here. Don’t supposethat’s in your lair?”

“Nah. That’s up in the other thing’s territory.”

“We’re going to head that way. Don’t s’pose you’d want to come with us and eat whatever monsters are up there?”

That was a brilliant idea. I wished I’d thought of it first.

“Nah, I’m comfy down here. But let me give you some advice, since you gave me something delicious. Get in there, get your shiny thing, and get out. Don’t provoke the beast. You won’t like what happens.”

That sounded like good advice.

“Okay, thank you. We’re leaving now.”

Marissa pointed, and I gradually began to withdraw from the room.

The spider woman waved. “Happy hunting! Feel free to come back if you want me to eat you later.”

We made our way out of the room, then carefully watched our step all the way back to the intersection.

“Well, that could have gone worse,” I offered. “You didn’t listen to me.” Marissa folded her arms. “I was kind of disarmed at the time.”

Mara shook her head. “No, I’m not complainin’. You were right. Went much better than if you had listened.” She ran her hands through her hair, a look of frustration on her face. “I donno what I’m doin’ down ‘ere. Don’t think I’m cut out for this.”

I furrowed my brow. “You’re kidding. You were annihilating those spiders back there.”

“Aye, but I didn’t even think about the idea of trading with ‘er. I just assumed, you know, monster. And that we’re s’posed ta fight monsters. How’d you figure ‘er out?”

“I think what really tipped me off was that she seemed to have a sense of taste. It all could have been a really talented Shadow controlling her, but the way she was acting struck me like she had senses of her own. That made me think summon — and summons can be bargained with.”

“I’d n’er have thought a that.”

I shrugged. “Sure, but as soon as I brought it up, you took advantage of it in a way that I didn’t. You thought about bringing her with us to make the rest of this easier — and that was a stroke of genius. I doubt any other individual monster down here will be as powerful as she was. If she accepted, it would have handled the whole rest of the test for us.”

Mara looked away. “But she said no.”

“Sometimes the world’s most brilliant ideas don’t work. Doesn’t makethem any less insightful.”

“I suppose.” She started walking again, but kept talking. “I s’pose. I just feel lost sometimes, you know?”

“More than you probably realize.” I sighed. “I’ve been behind on a lot of the basic classes all year. Father pulled me out of school three years ago, and I was never a good student even when I was going to class. Good at tests, but I never had the attention for reading anything that didn’t interest me. Never did my homework. Now, that’s all been coming back to haunt me, because there are a lot of basic things I either never learned or never paid enough attention to.”

“At least you got to go to a school for a while.” Marissa sighed.

I raised an eyebrow at that. “I know you grew up outside the city, but...no school at all?”

“Home schooling, they called it. Mam and Pap taught me a few things. Guess I should feel lucky they knew how to read, at least. Most everything else was either wrong or just not good enough.” She shook her head. “Not their fault. Same thing their parents did for them, to be sure. And they saved up everything they could to send me to that Judgment. Now I just want to do them proud.”

“I’m sure you will.”

“Are you? I’m not so sure. I’m not learning anythin’ that’ll help back at the farm. Can’t punch wheat and make it grow.”

I blinked. “You’re planning to go back home after this?” “Sure. Ain’t everyone?”

Definitely not.

I didn’t want to get into that topic, though, so I just shrugged a shoulder. “Maybe. Anyway, you’re a lot more than just a fighter, Mara. You protect people.”

“Sure, good if the occasional thief shows up, or a wild animal. But if I could do what you can do, maybe I could make a real difference. Make all sorts of tools to help people.”

I laughed. She gave me a frustrated look, so I raised my hands defensively. “Sorry, sorry. It’s just that the first thing that happened when I got home was my father telling me how disappointing and pathetic I was for having a coward’s attunement. And the worst thing was, I pretty much agreed with him. Everyone has always told me that this attunement means I wasn’t goodenough to get one like yours.” “Your father said that?”

“In much more loquacious and pretentious terms, but yes.” “Then your dad’s an ass.”

I laughed again. “Maybe. But I think he just wanted me to be more like him. Do the family proud.”

“Aye. I guess I can see that. Guess that’s what most parents want.”

“I’m sure your parents will be very proud of you, Mara. And if punching doesn’t help at home, you’ve got life mana too right? You could learn to heal.”

She paused in her step, seeming to consider that. “S’pose I could, couldn’t I?”

“Think they teach that for Guardians as an elective. Maybe you could take it next year.”

She nodded, looking thoughtful. “I might just do that.”

We walked in silence for a time after that, until Mara paused again. “Think I can see something up ahead.”

We reached the source of the light. It was a small room filled with mining equipment, with still-lit lanterns on the walls.

Also, bodies.

Specifically, they were kobold bodies. Kobolds were humanoid monsters that tended to be about three feet tall. Some looked closer to human than others — many had animal-like characteristics, or could change in shape.

These particular ones looked mostly like smaller versions of humans, but with greenish-blue skin that reminded me of metal. It wasn’t an unlikely resemblance; some kobolds worked in mines, and they tended to take on characteristics similar to the metals they worked.

They weren’t known for being very smart, but they were generally peaceful. Humans traded with them on occasion, frequently metals for other types of metals.

I didn’t like seeing their bodies, even knowing they were probably just illusions.

Mara approached the closest one, cautiously ducking down and flipping him over with a foot. I would have complained about her callous treatment,but I realized she was probably just being cautious about the possibility that they were faking and laying in ambush for us.

After all, the lights were still on.

That implied there was something still alive down here.

And if it wasn’t the kobolds, it was undoubtedly something worse.

We spent the next few minutes searching the area, but we didn’t find much of note. Mostly mining equipment, more bodies, and some old clothing.

We did, however, find the next step of the path — a long shaft descending into darkness.

“Think this is a lift.” Mara walked around to the other side of the shaft, finding a raised metallic box. “And this is the control for it, I think.”

I cautiously circled the pit. “Yep. Looks like we’re supposed to raise the platform somehow, then use it to get down below.”

I scanned the ceiling and the area inside the box, but I didn’t see any sort of rope leading down or a pulley system. That implied whatever moved the platform was down below, rather than up here.

“Ah!” She opened up a panel on the side of the metal box. “Think this is what we need.”

We took a look inside the box. It had a simple lever control, currently flipped down, and a socket with a single rune etched into it.

I knew what I was looking at — it was a slot for a power source.

“Looks like this is magically powered. And we need an essence crystal to operate it.”

Marissa nodded. “Great. Maybe there’s an essence crystal back with the kobolds?”

I glanced back that way, turning on my attunement.

The kobolds were glowing, since they were some kind of illusions or magical constructs. I was pleased to know my school hadn’t imported dead kobolds (or murdered live ones for just a test).

I didn’t see any essence crystals, though. And I was pretty sure I knew why.

I think Marissa came to the realization at the same time. “Uh, Corin?” “Yeah?”

“I don’t suppose that power source might have looked like a green rock, would it?”

I pictured the crystal she’d throw at the spider monster’s head. “...Yeah.” “Oops.”

I sighed. “Yep. I don’t suppose you took it with you?” She shook her head. “You?”

“Nope. Was too busy trying to get out of there alive. Completely forgot about it.”

“Well, doesn’t that just caw the roost.”

“Yeah. I think. I’m not really sure what that phrase means.”

Marissa just nodded. “I don’t think I do, either. Anyway, should we go back?”

I shook my head. “Probably not. Give me a minute.”

I took a look at the control box more carefully, searching for other runes. I only found one more, and it wasn’t a good sign — it was a targeting rune, indicating that the main runes for operating the device were down below.

That meant if I wanted to try to operate it from up here, I’d either have to completely rewrite the runes, or find it an alternate power source if I wanted to operate it in the intended way.

Checking the rune for the power source, it looked like it was built for a Class 3 Transference Mana Crystal. I could make mana crystals, but nothing even close to that magnitude.

Maybe I could make it work briefly with a weaker crystal? It might be worth an attempt.

“I might be able to power this on my own, but it’ll take a lot out of me, and I’m not sure it’ll work.”

I was already pretty exhausted from all the enchanting I’d done earlier, so I wasn’t sure how much more I could manage.

“How much of your mana do you think it would take to get it up and running?”

I considered that. “Somewhere in the sixty range. That’d be one class lower than the amount that it’s supposed to run on.”

“And you’ve got, what, eighty total?”

“Eighty-four.” I checked it obsessively enough that I was confident about that.

She shook her head. “Not worth it. Might need that mana for something more important. Like, ya know, fighting.”

I knelt down, looking into the depths of the pit. “Did you think to bring rope?”

Marissa winced. “Wasn’t counting on climbing.”

I have some, but it’s in the Jaden Box, and that raises the same problem as before. Maybe next time I need to figure out which items are likely to be used in my tests and keep them in a separate pack.

“I didn’t, either.” I admitted. “Maybe we can find some with the mining supplies?”

We searched for a bit, and we did eventually find a coil of fraying rope, but it was only about ten feet long. Dropping a rock and listening for the sound, we judged the total depth to be about twenty five or thirty feet.

Mara took the rope and walked back over to the control area. “Could attach this, climb part way, and then drop the rest. Shrouds and shield sigils will take care of us, shouldn’t be hurt too bad.”

She was right, but I didn’t like the idea of even minor injuries if we could avoid them. And draining the shield sigils wouldn’t be a great idea, either.

I had a better solution, though. I was wearing it.

I lifted my hand to remind her about the ring. “This doesn’t just help me jump, it slows down falling, too.”

“Great! That should let you get down easy. Maybe you could catch me?” I winced. “Not confident I could manage that without hurting us more.”

Another idea did come to mind, though. I was almost sure it would work, but I didn’t like it.

“Corin? I know that expression. What you thinkin’?”

I sighed. “I could just pick you up and jump down. The ring doesn’t distinguish between a number of people — it just applies a certain amount of force. It should have no problem slowing the descent for us both. Or getting us back to the top, now that I think about it. That’s going to be pretty important later.”

Mara nodded. “Sounds good. You ready?”

No. Definitely not.

“One second.”

Marissa didn’t even seem the slightest bit awkward. I had to take a minute to regulate my breathing.

“Not good with heights,” I explained awkwardly. “Could you do that shroud extension thing and keep us both inside your shroud to soften the fall, just in case I mess this up?”

“Oh, sure. Won’t matter much now that you’ve got your own shroud, but it might help a little.”

Just talking about something else helped steel my nerves a little bit. I tried to ignore the itching sensation at the back of my mind that happened any time I had to touch someone.

It helped that I was the one who was going to be carrying her, not the other way around.

It also helped that she was familiar. A friend, even. But that couldn’t smash the feeling entirely.

I took another breath. “Let’s do this.”

I ducked down, and she wrapped her arms around my neck.

Don’tpanicdon’tpanicdon’tpanic.

Then, I lifted. That wasn’t hard in terms of strength — she was athletic, but skinny, and I was in pretty good shape. With her arms around me, it wasn’t like lifting dead weight, either.

I felt a tingling sensation that didn’t come from my own paranoia. “Shroud’s good. Ready when you are.”

Oh, the shroud. Right. Breathe.

I took a breath, then I jumped.

We fell.

The fall was at full speed at first. I focused, estimating our time to hit the ground, and then activated the ring. That set off an explosion of force beneath my feet that launched us back up about ten feet.

Mara let out an excited “Wee!” and a giggle at the jolt.

Then we were falling again, but slower. We touched down without incident. We landed atop a metallic cage, which I realized was probably part of the elevator system. I set Marissa down, then we clambered over the cage and down the rest of the way to the floor.

“That was great!” Marissa briefly pulled me into a hug, and I was too stunned to do anything about it. “Okay, let’s go find that scary thing.”

She was off and walking, leaving me to stare blankly into the void for a few moments before I turned to follow her.

Mara’s light seemed...muted, here. Dampened by something in the air, maybe. I couldn’t tell if it was just my perception or if there really was some sort of shadow magic at work.

Probably the latter, knowing my luck. Or maybe both.

The tunnel here was rougher, and we had to watch our step to avoid stumbling over protruding rocks. It led downward for what seemed like miles, but that part probably was just my perception.

The path forked again. I could hear the sound of running water nearby, much louder to the left than the right.

“We going toward the water?” I asked. “Let’s try the other way first.”

Marissa led the way.

We paused when we found the next group of bodies.

Or, more accurately, skeletons. They’d been dead a while.

Upon inspection, the bodies were human - or at least humanoid. Probably some of the miners we’d heard about.

Almost all of them were facing toward the way we’d come from. Only the furthest body from us was facing toward the direction we were going.

Unlike the others, he held a rusted sword in his hand. The tip of the sword had been broken off and was lying nearby.

A part of me wanted to compliment whoever had set this place up for their attention to detail. The implication was clearly that these people had been running from something. Most of them had died running. The one who had tried to fight had died first.

It really added to the ambiance of the place.

Another part of me was, however, actually somewhat scared.

I knew intellectually this was a test, but it was like those stories about the Blackstone Assassin. Everyone knew that he wasn’t real, but when someone left a black gemstone on your pillow as a prank, there was always a moment of panic before you calmed down and looked for a friend snickering in the corner.

“You know,” I offered, “It’s possible this is a clue that we’re not supposed to go this way.”

“Nah. Just means there’s danger close by. Gotta keep our fists up.”

I kept my sword raised instead. Punching was all well and good, but I preferred having an extra yard of reach. “Can you glean anything from the bodies?”

Marissa looked them over briefly. “Nah. It’s monster huntin’ class, not forensics.”

That was fair, but also somewhat disappointing. I was more interested in the mystery solving portion of this than just hitting things.

I didn’t mind hitting things, per se. As long as they weren’t intelligent and chatty. Or particularly adorable.

Given what we’d seen from these bodies, I expected we might finally have an unambiguously monstrous opponent to deal with. That was actually kind of exciting.

We pushed on, eventually reaching another wide open chamber.

There was seemingly nothing inside — except for the obvious black- bladed sword in the center, thrust into an altar of stone.

“I have literally never seen a more obvious trap.” I waved at the center of the room. “And I’m including those fire-breathing statues from the spire.”

Marissa nodded. She shined her lantern into the room, but we couldn’t see anything else of note. “Think something’s going to drop down from the ceiling? More spiders?”

I shrugged. “Don’t know. Let’s walk in carefully, do a circle, and check the floors and ceilings before we touch the thing.”

We did just that, checking the area slowly. We didn’t find any sign of monsters. The ceiling was pretty high up, so it was hard to tell if there were holes that spiders could be hiding inside, but I didn’t see any.

I turned on my Enchanter attunement and glanced around. I didn’t see any magical auras, aside from Mara.

...None at all. Not even on the sword.

“That’s odd.” I stepped a little closer. The sword did have runes on the blade, but they didn’t glow in the slightest.

Mara walked over. “What’s odd?”

“Not sensing any magic on it at all. I mean, maybe that’s just because it’s a theatrical prop...”

Marissa shook her head. “Doubt it. You know they could afford to put an enchanted weapon down here, even if it’s just a basic one. If you’re not seeing magic on it, there’s a reason for that.”

I scanned the runes, but it was hard to see them clearly in the light. Still, I was reasonably confident about one thing—I didn’t recognize any of them.

Now, maybe that meant this was a sword of ancient and terrible power, that I couldn’t detect at all because it was made with a different type of magic. The kind of legendary magic weapon that Keras probably keeps stashed under his pillow.

There was a much more obvious explanation, though. “I think it’s a decoy.”

Marissa frowned. “A decoy?”

“Just a fake sword that we’re expected to take. Probably triggers a mechanical trap that’s in the base of that altar. Maybe even a magical trap that’s inside the stone itself. I can’t see through solid rock.”

“But we’re supposed to be ‘ere to get a magic weapon, yeah?”

“Exactly. This is so obvious that I’m betting it’s just here as a distraction.” I considered. “We could try to break open the altar and see if there’s anything else inside, or we can just leave it here and go check the other path.”

“I’m not sure I’d feel right just leavin’ without checkin’ this more.”

I agreed with her assessment. “Okay, then we need to clear the rock without triggering whatever mechanism is connected to the sword itself. Think you can do that?”

Marissa nodded. She extended her hand to her right side. “Been practicin’ just the thing for that.”

Her shroud extended beyond her right hand, taking the shape of a blade.

The technique she’d been practicing with Keras.

I took a step back and let her work.

I expected chopping through the solid rock to be a slow process. Fortunately, it wasn’t solid rock at all.

The stone altar was a façade — it was completely hollowed out inside. The stone on the surface was only a couple inches thick. She chopped it away with ease, then moved it to the side.

The sword was stuck inside a metallic base. That had runes etched into the side that were glowing.

“Let’s see... First rune is motion activation, that makes sense. That’s a shadow rune...a power rune for increasing effect...and some kind of teleportation rune...” I sighed. “Yeah, this thing summons some kind of shadow monsters if you take the sword out.”

“Huh. Neat. Want to fight them?”

I laughed. “Nah, I think we’ll get plenty of fighting done on the other path. But if you want a souvenir, I could probably disable the trap and take the sword out.”

“Sure!”

Just scratching out the runes would trigger a form of backlash, which would be bad. I’d learned how to transfer mana from a rune to another rune, but I didn’t have experience at doing it, and this wasn’t a good place to practice.

Instead, I simply touched the activation rune and transferred the mana straight into the air. Some more powerful items had runes to prevent this sort of thing from being possible — basically generating a shield around the item itself to prevent tampering — but this was basic stuff. There weren’t any prevention measures in effect.

It took me just a minute to do that. Then I repeated the process with the other runes.

Moving the mana from the shadow rune felt a little strange. I’d worked with the other types of mana before, but even touching shadow mana made my skin crawl. It felt...wrong, somehow, like it was draining my strength just letting it come into contact with me.

I didn’t let that bother me, though. “Okay, this side is done. Cut the stone on the other side, just in case there are more runes on the other side.

There weren’t, it turned out. We’d gotten lucky and found the trap on thefirst try. Still, it had been wise to check.

We took one last precautionary measure — we cut the whole stone section in the floor out where the metal piece was anchored, then checked the bottom for more runes. But there was nothing else, as we’d suspected.

Apparently, these teachers weren’t quite as devious as Orden. I suspected that if she’d been running the test, the whole sword would have turned into a monster to eat us or something.

Weirdly enough, that made me miss her a little. Which was horrible, because she was a traitor, but...

I shook my head, dismissing the feeling as quickly as I could. “Okay, should be good to go.”

Marissa drew the sword.

As we’d expected, nothing happened.

“Huh. Don’t even think this sword is real. Feels too light.” She turned it over, then shook it in the air. “Thinkin’ it’s a stage prop?”

I laughed. “Figures. Okay, ready to check that other path?” “Yep.”

We headed back down the way we came, then took the other fork. There were no bodies this way.

Just...skin.

Or, more accurately, molted skin and scales.

“Wow.” Marissa ducked down and picked up a scale. It was about the size of her fist. It was hard to tell in the light, but I thought it was a dark turquoise, or maybe just blue.

“That’s...a pretty big scale.”

“Yup! Oooh, I bet there’s a serpent down there.” She slung the fake sword over her shoulder, bouncing on her heels in enthusiasm. “Let’s go kill it!”

I was somewhat less excited. Sure, the idea of slaying a serpent was exciting, but...I remembered.

I remembered Mizuchi, looming over the Soaring Wings headquarters. She took a breath, lightning flaring around her titanic jaws, and then exhaled.

People screamed and fell. Lord Teft’s barrier, maintained by himself and his simulacra, barely managed to keep us from harm — and we weren’tanywhere close to the blast radius.

This creature certainly wouldn’t be as strong as Mizuchi. Almost nothing was; she was the child of a God Beast, and very nearly a God Beast herself.

But seeing that had given me a realistic idea of my chances against any truly powerful monster, and those chances were extraordinarily low.

“We...may want to wait and make a plan first, Mara.”

She paused in her step. “Oh, right, you’re not in the class. Guess you probably don’t know much about serpents, then?”

I shook my head. “I learned a bit when I was researching the spire itself. Tough scales and a powerful shroud. They can exhale bursts of magic. Some of them can change in shape to a humanoid form, but they usually still have some characteristics that make them stand out. I didn’t learn much about tactics for fighting them, though. My plan was pretty much to flee in terror and hope for the best.”

Marissa laughed. “Well, that’d usually work, but not here. Gotta beat this one and get me a good score. Important thing to know — the scales usually tell you the type of breath it’s got. The environment helps, too. Blue scales and water mean it’s probably a water serpent.”

That made sense. “So, fire would be effective, then?”

“Nah. I mean, it wouldn’t be bad, but opposites aren’t usually the best for monsters. Like cancels out like, but that’s end neutral. You want something that has a violent effect. For water, that means lightning.”

I nodded at the explanation. Something about that bothered me, though. Mizuchi was supposed to be a water dragon, but I’d seen her breathe lightning. Was she actually a lightning dragon, or could she actually use a type of magic she was weak against?Either seemed strange, but I supposed that the children of God Beasts were powerful enough to break all sorts of the normal rules about how monsters were supposed to work.

“Okay.” I pondered for a moment. “We don’t have lightning. Then what?”

Marissa grinned. “When you don’t have the right element, there is one thing every monster is weak against.”

“Oh?” This sounded like useful information. “Punching.” She made a fist.

I laughed. “Okay. Anything else I should know?”

She shrugged a shoulder. “Serpents can use magic, like karvensi can. Most of them don’t bother unless they’re in their human form, though.”

“What sorts of magic?”

“Depends on the serpent. Usually matches their colors. The older ones get a broader variety, though. The really big ones, like the Tails of Orochi, even have things that work like attunement powers.”

I blinked. “So, there could be serpents that have Enchanter or Guardian abilities?”

“Yeah, sure. But it’s the scarier attunements you really need to worry about. You wouldn’t want to run into a serpent that could use Shadow abilities, for example.”

I wouldn’t want to run into a serpent in general, but she was right. The magic defense abilities of a Shadow or a Shaper being combined with the inherent abilities of a serpent would be terrifying. “Okay, I’ll keep an eye out for any attunement abilities they might use.”

“Great. Let’s get going.”

She led the way further into the tunnel.

We ended up in the largest chamber we’d seen yet. Lit torches were attached to the walls, which seemed strange until I checked them and realized they were enchanted. They’d burn forever, as long as they could gather enough ambient mana.

Maybe it was just for effect, or maybe it was part of the test. I couldn’t be sure.

The center of the room was dominated by a huge pool of water. A waterfall on the right side of the chamber was pouring into that central pool. At a glance, the central pool was too deep for us to see the bottom.

“Don’t get too close,” Mara warned. “Serpent is probably in there somewhere.”

I nodded, keeping my distance. “Do we try to draw it out onto land somehow?”

“Maybe. Let’s keep looking around a bit first.”

We searched the area until Mara found something of note. “Hey, Corin, c’mere.”

There was a wide indentation in the rock near the waterfall. It looked like a slot for something, like a keyhole, but flat and too wide for an ordinary key.

“The sword?” I asked.

“Was thinkin’ the same thing. Should I?”

“Maybe we should cut the side open first and look for the runes. It might be another trap we can disable.”

Marissa frowned. “But that takes soooo long.” I rolled my eyes. “Fine. Go for it.”

“Watch my back, yeah?”

I nodded, taking up a defensive position behind her. Marissa stuck the sword in the slot.

I heard a ‘click’, followed by what sounded like a musical chime.

Weird.

Then the waterfall subsided, and the pool of water in the center of the room began to drain.

Behind where the waterfall had been, we could see another passage into a small chamber. A glimmering golden axe hovered in mid-air.

“Okay, I have to admit, that’s a pretty impressive effect.”

We were so distracted by the shiny object that we barely noticed that the room was getting darker.

That wasn’t shadow magic at work.

It was the gigantic serpent that had emerged from the draining water, and was now looming above us.

The creature was much smaller than Mizuchi, but still terrifyingly huge. A good twenty feet of it was exposed, and I couldn’t tell how much was still below the water or coiled up. It was only about four feet wide, but that still meant that it was big enough to swallow a person whole.

I noticed it first. “Uh, Mara?”

She was just about to reach for the axe when she turned. “Huh?...oh.

Fudgenuggets.”

The serpent roared, reared up, and took a deep breath. And, in spite of my better instincts, I didn’t run.

I attacked.

As the creature swooped down, jaws wide, I jumped and activated the ring. I aimed for its head, but it twisted to the side and tried to bite me out of the air.

I activated the ring again, blasting myself backward. The creature’s jaws snapped shut where I’d been floating a moment before.

Marissa charged and did exactly what she promised.

“Rising thunder!” Her first swirled with mana as she pulled it back, then slammed it into the creature’s scales. The serpent roared and recoiled at the impact.

I floated to the ground a moment later. “Let’s keep it flanked!” “Got it!” Marissa punched it again, while I ran behind it.

I’d considered that a valid tactic right up until the creature’s tail flashed out of the water and slammed right into my chest.

I flew backward, crashing into the stone cavern walls. My barrier and shroud softened the impact, but it still knocked the wind right out of me.

It took me a few whole seconds to stand, and another couple to steady myself.

By that point, Marissa had fallen back on the defensive. The serpent descended to bite her, but she nimbly dodged to the side and landed another punch on the side of the creature’s head.

Its tail whipped out to slam into her, but Marissa was ready, and she hopped several feet in the air to launch herself over it. She couldn’t quite get the height that I could with the ring, but her attunement enhanced her physical capabilities far beyond what an ordinary human could muster.

Marissa drew back for another punch, charging mana in her fist. The creature whipped its tail — but not at her, this time.

It smashed the water, sending a tidal wave across the room.

We braced ourselves, but the water still impacted us hard and threw us off our feet.

Cold.

I shivered as the water subsided. The chill didn’t bother me as much as the weight — my clothing was soaking now, and that would limit my mobility.

Before we had a chance to recover, the serpent reared up and took a deep breath.

“Dodge!” Marissa yelled.

“You don’t have to tell me that!”

We rushed to opposite sides of the room, both thinking that would help us avoid whatever came next.

We were mistaken.

When the creature exhaled, the temperature in the chamber plummeted, and I realized our first mistake.

We weren’t dealing with a creature of water. This was a monster of ice.

The serpent turned toward me, still exhaling. The breath was freezing everything in its path solid. I couldn’t trust my shroud to defend against that.

“The wall!” Marissa screamed.

Shivering and barely capable of movement, I realized what she meant just before the serpent’s breath reached me.

I jumped to the side, activating my ring, and threw myself straight at the wall.

Or, more specifically, at the closest enchanted torch.

I slammed right into it. Normally, that would have been a terrible idea, but I was currently both wet and half-frozen from the serpent’s breath, so the flames didn’t burn me in the slightest.

After a moment of hugging up against the torch, I sliced it off the wall and grabbed it with my off-hand, pulling it dangerously close to my skin to evaporate what I could of the clinging ice and water.

The serpent turned away from me and back toward Mara. She had already grabbed a torch and was trying to warm herself in the same way.

Fortunately, the creature had stopped using its breath to freeze the room, but much of the damage had already been done. Part of the lake that hadn’t drained away was frozen solid, and ice clung to nearly every surface of the room. Even maneuvering would be difficult.

That made it all the more dangerous when the creature lunged for Marissa again, jaws wide.

I’m making a bad habit out of this.

I threw my sword at the creature’s back.

It was, fortunately, a much easier throw than hitting the spider had been.

The serpent was basically one giant target.

The blade pierced the creature’s scales easily. The serpent screamed and thrashed, abandoning its attack.

I rushed forward, slipped on the ice, and hit the floor.

The serpent turned, howled into the air, and rose up like a snake about to strike.

I barely managed to stand, then fired a blast from my demi-gauntlet into the creature’s head.

That just made it angrier.

The serpent’s head descended, jaws side. Snap.

The creature’s head continued downward...but fell off to the side, severed from the rest of its body.

Nearby, Marissa lifted the golden axe into the air and cheered. “Yeah! This thing is great!”

I blinked, turned my head to the headless serpent, and then back to Marissa.

Then I burst into laughter. “Talk about dramatic timing there, Mara. That thing was seconds from eating me.”

“I know! It was great!”

Mara twirled the axe around, grinning. “Think this is the real thing we came for. Cut through that thing like paper.”

“Sounds about right.” With my attunement active, I could see several runes glowing on the surface. I couldn’t identify them with Mara swinging it gleefully all over the place, though. “You did great there.”

“Thanks! Couldn’t have gotten a clean shot if you hadn’t thrown your sword at it. Do you practice that? You seem to do it a lot.”

I laughed. “I actually did used to practice throwing weapons, but mostly knives and darts. Swords aren’t great for throwing, but sometimes I don’t have better options.”

“What about that shockwave thing you can do when you swing it?” “That’s not bad for small stuff, and it hits harder than a dueling cane, butit’s hard to aim and—”

I heard a rumbling to my side. I frowned. Mara paused, too. “Did you hear that?”

I nodded. “Yeah, it sounded like it was coming from—” We turned toward the serpent’s body.

It was moving.

More precisely, it was standing back up.

And then, as we gaped in horror, we saw something growing from the severed stump.

Or, more accurately, two somethings. Something, in this context, being heads. We hadn’t been fighting a serpent.

We were fighting a hydra.

“Uh, Mara?” I held the torch out in front of me. “...Yyyyeah, Corinnn?”

“How do we fight a hydra?”

“I....uh...” She was shivering, and I was pretty sure it wasn’t just the cold.

The two heads were finished emerging from the neck now. I watched it with a combination of horror and fascination. How exactly did a regenerative process like that work?Then the two heads snapped their jaws in the air, and turned their gazes toward us.

I looked at Mara. “Nevermind. Pretty sure we run.” I grabbed her by the arm and pulled.

She required no further encouragement.

We rushed out of the chamber at maximum speed. The hydra howled in fury behind us, slithering closer to snap at us with twin jaws.

Then we were in the tunnel. One serpentine head reached in to try to bite us, but we kept running.

Moments later, we were too deep for the hydra to reach.

But we still weren’t quite safe.

Water was beginning to drip from the ceiling, seemingly from everywhere.

It was like it had suddenly begun to rain.

The cold from that was a problem, but not the main one.

The real problem was that the chambers above and below us were filling with water.

If we didn’t move fast, we were going to drown.

We rushed as quickly as we could, still hand in hand. I slipped once, but Mara dragged me back to my feet, and then she was leading the way.

We reached the elevator. Without a second to converse, she threw her arms around me — fortunately, not chopping my head off in the process — and I dropped the torch to lift her.

I jumped. And, then, mid-air, I jumped again, using the ring. I kicked off the side of the shaft, then jumped again.

Finally, we landed up top.

Water was still dripping from the ceiling up top. It was either some kind of trap, or some spell the hydra had cast. It hardly mattered.

We knew the way out, so we ran.

We were drenched when we finally got outside.

When we finally sat down, we were laughing like madmen.

Neither of us expected the voice that approached from my right side.

The spider loomed over us, arms folded. “You two absolutely ruined my lair. I’m going to expect reimbursement for this.”

And with that, our test was over.

***“I admit, I have never seen someone bribe the jorogumo with beef jerky before. That was an inspired tactic.”

Marissa’s teacher was Sir Tanath, a knight of the Soaring Wings. He looked more like a storybook hero than any of the other Soaring Wings I’d seen, his short beard and gleaming blue eyes complimenting his silvery mail and the gold-hilted sword at his side.

“Thank you, sir.” Marissa beamed.

“I’m not done yet. You still left a hideously dangerous monster alive, that could have ambushed you — or someone else — at a later time.”

“But—” I began to interject.

He raised a hand to quiet me. “Nevertheless, too many people fail to realize that intelligent monsters can be used as a resource. I’m a Summoner myself, and that darling creature you met was one of my contracted beasts. I met her in a situation not too different from the one you did, and like you, I realized she was smart enough to be worth working with.”

I blinked. His outward warrior-like appearance made me assume he’d be something like a Guardian, or maybe a foreign attunement like a Soulblade.

Sir Tanath continued. “When I was serving in the Unclaimed Lands, she was one of the best resources at my disposal. I made many other contracts with intelligent monsters there — some were useful, some were dangerous liabilities. A Summoner’s pact is not inviolable; a monster of sufficient cunning can and will find ways to work around it. I am fortunate that thus far I’ve been too entertaining for that particular friend to betray me.

“When you are in a situation with monsters like her, you must ask yourself what the odds are that they will be a threat to you if you leave them alive. In that scenario, virtually all students merely fight her — and lose. You made a wise decision to make a deal. It might have been wiser to simply run, but nevertheless, you did well.”

Sir Tanath turned to face Marissa directly. “I’m pleased to say that by retrieving the axe, you’ve passed the test. By also managing to handle the hydra and jorogumo without any major problems, you’ve earned an A. Once again, you’re near the top of the class. Congratulations, Miss Callahan.” He extended his hand, which Marissa shook enthusiastically.

“Thank you sir! I’m so happy!” Then she raised the axe, grinning. “Uh, can I keep this?”

***In the end, Sir Tanath did not let her keep the axe. He did, however, return my sword, with a few stern words about leaving my weapons behind.

I really did have a bad habit of doing that.

Even axe-free, Marissa was in a great mood as we walked, still soaking wet, all the way home.

