CHAPTER V – OPTIONS



I got uncharacteristically overzealous about my new enchanting prospects, making crystal after crystal until my hand was throbbing and my temples were searing.

When I was done, I checked my mana with my mana watch. My hand registered at 14/82 and my Enchanting attunement was down to 18/50. That was much lower than I was used to going, even while focusing on deliberately exercising. The excitement helped me push past my fear, at least to a point.

My reward was a table littered with crystals. Mostly gray, but some transference mana and some mental mana.

They weren’t worth much, but I was getting better in two ways. First, I was getting used to making them without the shells. Second, I’d been focusing on making the new ones at progressively higher levels of density. My original crystals weren’t even a full point of mana, but my latest ones each held about three mana each.

That still was less than a Class 1 mana gem, but I was getting there. And I was confident I could get even further with practice.

Not bad at all for a day of work.

As excited as I was, though, I still didn’t have anything to give as a suitable gift. I went downstairs to talk to everyone, which was the point when I realized that it was the middle of the night.

Oops.

I wasn’t quite alone, though.

I found a familiar figure sitting next to the fireplace, reading a book. He looked up as I approached. “Ah, Master Cadence. I was wondering if youwould bother to make an appearance this evening.”

I blinked. “Lord...Teft? What are you doing here?”

He waved to offer me a chair across from his. “Playing the role of your guardian for the evening, it would seem.”

I frowned, taking a seat and folding my arms. “I seem to have acquired quite a few of those recently.”

“You have made yourself a figure of some significance, but lack the power necessary to defend yourself adequately.” Teft raised a hand to silence any objections.

“I did not say that you lack skill. You are young yet, and your magic will grow over time. But the circumstances you have found yourself in are dangerous — that can no longer be in any doubt. I do not expect that anyone would be foolish enough to strike at you in the heart of Master Hartigan’s home, but it is wise to be prepared.”

I sighed. I couldn’t entirely disagree. “Preparations are fine, but I suspect that Derek and Keras are quite enough for any threats that might emerge.”

“Ah, is that who the man in the masquerade mask was? I suspected from your prior description, but I was uncertain. Nay, the pair of them left somewhat earlier, and will not be returning this eve. Thus, I am here. Much to our mutual dismay, I’m certain.”

I was a bit surprised by that. “Gone? Where? To the tower?”

“I would prefer that in some senses, even if I would disapprove of going with only two people. Nay, it is far worse. They have gone to a place of ill repute.”

I blinked. “What?... Like a brothel?”

He shook his head and waved a hand dismissively. “No, no. Although I have little doubt such services are offered, such would be positively mundane compared to the depths of depravity where they have gone. It is a place representing the worst of our society. Dark dealings, gambling, and all forms of excess.” After a brief pause, he clasped his hands dramatically, “A casino.”

I’d heard of casinos, but I’d never been to one. They sounded rather entertaining. I had a number of questions, but the first one was simple enough. “Why?”

“It would seem that Master Hartigan has gotten it into his head that reputable sources of information are insufficient for his investigations. And thus, he turns to those who would sell anything for the right price, informationbeing one service of many.” Teft lowered his head. He looked tired, as well as disapproving.

“You look like a casino just killed your favorite dog. What’s the problem?Those two can take care of themselves, if you’re worried about them.”

Teft sighed. “In body, I am certain they can fend for themselves. Derek is a master swordsman, and if the one accompanying him is Keras Selyrian, I am certain that even the cutthroats in that place would give him a wide berth. I am more concerned for their health in other respects. In mind, and of spirit.”

Spirit? Derek had mentioned that Teft was devout, but I didn’t see what the problem with this place was. “In what way? I thought the goddess approved of gambling. Isn’t going into the spire essentially gambling in itself?”

Teft shook his head. “I would not compare the spire to mere secular gambling, but it is true that the goddess favors games of both chance and skill. No, the distinction is that the goddess is fair. The casino is designed to be unfair. Therein, Derek and Keras will be tempted, and when they are at their weakest, exploited. It is dishonesty in business form.”

That sounded kind of fun. I mean, Teft clearly thought the whole concept was awful, but I liked the idea of testing myself against their rigged games. The intoxication and other forms of temptation I could do without.

I raised a hand to my chin. “So, I take it you don’t want to head over there, then?”

Teft stared me in the eyes. “I know you’re jesting, but no. I most certainly do not.”

I chuckled. “Fine, fine. I’ll let them have the fun this time. But that still doesn’t tell me why you are here.”

Teft’s jaw tensed into an uncharacteristic look. Frustration? Dismay, maybe? “I have made mistakes. I consider this the first of many steps to make amends for them.”

“You mean like making Sera fight when she clearly was still injured?”

He shook his head. “I make no apologies for that. I offered her a fair choice. That is more than she would be given on the battlefield.”

“But we’re not on a battlefield, and surely you’re aware it came across as a false choice.”

“Only because there are too many fools who do not realize that retreat is a valid option. At times, it is the best option. I do not fault Miss Cadence for fighting, of course. I respect her tenacity, and she performed better than Iexpected, given her disadvantages. But she was not ‘better’ by a sufficient margin to overcome her disadvantage, and thus, she failed.”

“It still wasn’t very kind of you.”

“If you think that training for battle should be about kindness, you are more of a fool than I realized.”

I pushed myself up from the chair, glaring down at Teft. “Really? Turning to insults? I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised, given that attacking students seems to be the only thing you’re good at. It’s fortunate that we haven’t actually been attacked tonight, because you’re certainly not capable of defending them.”

Teft stood as well, returning my stare. “Perhaps you are right. I deserve your ridicule for allowing you into that battle outside the tower, and more so for allowing Derek to take my place in the aftermath. But if I seem harsh, Master Cadence, that is because I am seeking to prepare you for what is coming. And in war, there will be no one to coddle you, or any other child.”

“Oh, I believe you. I’ve heard the same thing from my father for years.

You two are quite a lot alike.”

Teft actually winced when I said that. I hadn’t expected to hit a nerve with that, but I certainly wasn’t going to complain.

And, given that he was startled enough that he didn’t reply immediately, I took that as a chance to make my dramatic exit, and headed back toward my room to sleep.

***When I woke up in the morning, I could hear a group gathered downstairs.

I hadn’t slept well, mostly as a consequence of the pain from overworking both of my attunements.

Fortunately, Derek was wealthy enough that his washrooms had bathtubs that generated their own hot and cold water. We’d had just one of them at home, so I knew how to activate the runes to change the temperature. I settled on hot, which helped chase away some of the lingering pain.

I inspected the runes on the side of the tub as I bathed, but I wasn’t awake enough to remember them very well.

After I finished bathing and getting dressed, I checked my mana. It registered at 84/84 for my Arbiter attunement and 52/52 for my Enchanter attunement.

So, two points for each.

That was fantastic progress for one day of work, comparable to what I’d gotten after the fight outside of the tower. Unfortunately, it had taken most of the day, and I was still exhausted from the effort. I planned to keep pushing myself to increase in strength quickly, but I’d have to figure out a way to make it more efficient.

Transferring my mana into runes is much faster than trying to form crystals, so that would reduce the time it takes to drain my mana reserves — and it would give me more time to recover. Presumably, using my Arbiter attunement to transfer mana directly into someone will work similarly... I should test that out soon.

It was Kyrsday, so I only had two classes: Understanding Attunements and Physical Combat.

The latter was less exciting than it sounded, since it ended up being more about exercise and general weapon familiarity than direct combat. We practiced dueling cane usage, basic sword strokes, and footwork more than anything else. Occasionally, we had a class dedicated to another weapon, such as bows or spears — mostly with the goal of learning how to counter them.

The Valian military used a mixture of firearms and dueling canes, with sabers as side arms for close combat engagements. Up to that point, we’d only been given a single lesson with firearms — we’d focus on them more the following year.

Physical Combat was one of the few classes where I was toward the top in performance. I couldn’t hope to match up against Guardians, but my years of training with my father had gotten me into excellent shape.

I can skip both classes today if I need more time to work on a gift for Sheridan, but I need to be careful.

I can’t miss my classes often. My grades are fine, but graduating is still extremely important. I can’t afford to get set back a year or sent off to some obscure military assignment.

I’ll see how the morning goes and hit Understanding Attunements in the afternoon if I have time.

With that in mind, I headed downstairs.

Everyone was gathered for breakfast, minus Teft. I didn’t know if he’d left or if he was just sleeping somewhere, given how late he’d been up.

Patrick waved excitedly at me as I headed into the dining room. “Corin!You’re awake!”

I waved sleepily in return. “For certain values of ‘awake’, yeah. Strange seeing everyone here at once. What’s the event?”

Patrick waved for me to take a seat next to him. I obliged. “We were waiting for you. Not too long, don’t worry. Derek has news!”

Taking the opening, Derek leaned forward across his spot at the table. “I think Orden’s conspiracy made their next move. Or moves, as the case may be.”

“What do you mean?”

Sera passed an empty plate to Marissa, who passed it on to me. I accepted it and began to load the plate from the dishes on the dining table — eggs cooked with bacon, a couple sausages, cooked carrots, and a muffin.

I wasn’t sure who cooked all of it, but at the moment, I was too famished to care. I tore into the breakfast with abandon while I listened to Derek.

“I’d been hearing some dark rumors about happenings in other countries, and I decided to look into it further. Last night, Keras and I went to The Golden Run to meet with a few old friends of mine. We learned a few things that are, well, concerning.”

“Such as?” I asked, while Patrick poured me a drink and handed it over. I nodded to him gratefully.

Derek’s expression took a turn for the serious, which was never a good sign. “Only hours after we left the Shifting Spire, someone detonated an explosive device in the Grand Cathedral in Dalenos. Dozens were killed, and hundreds injured.”

I had to put my fork down to pause and process that. “The Grand Cathedral? Isn’t that one of their biggest centers of worship?”

“It is. Or, rather, it was. The place was devastated. There’s talk that Katashi’s Hierophant may have been killed in the explosion, but I haven’t been able to confirm that.”

I winced. “That can’t be good. With Tenjin missing, Katashi was already inches from leveling Valia.” I paused, processing that. “Which was probably deliberate. You think someone is trying to force Katashi’s hand?”

“Definitely. Could be the same group that Orden was working with, could be someone else being opportunistic. Either way, the longer Tenjin is missing, the more this situation has a chance to escalate. I was hoping that with Orden captured, Katashi would have enough information to find his brother and resolve this himself...”

I understood where Derek was going. “But if someone just attacked a major temple in Katashi’s home region, he’s probably going to need to deal with that.”

“Right. And there’s more to it. Two more temples have been attacked in the last few days, and three other government buildings. There have been a few people arrested, but the attacks haven’t stopped. They most likely have organized leadership, and I suspect this is just an opening move.”

Patrick had a thoughtful expression. “For what goal?”

Derek grimaced. “A few possibilities there. Orden mentioned protecting Valia as a goal. By drawing Katashi’s attention back to Dalenos, the people who were working with her might minimize the damage to our country. There are all sorts of other longer-term goals that could be behind this, though.

Weakening specific countries to allow for an invasion from another force, such as Edria or Caelford, for example.”

I had another hypothesis, but I didn’t say it aloud. It was pure speculation at this point, and I didn’t want to raise any more alarms.

“So many people,” Marissa mumbled. “It’s terrible.”

I hadn’t even been thinking about that, in truth. I agreed with her, of course, but my mind was elsewhere.

Tristan, what are you planning?Derek was right. If Tristan and his organization were behind this, they’d have a longer-term plan of some kind.

I glanced at Sera, saw her calculating expression, and knew she was contemplating possibilities like I was.

Keras turned his head toward Marissa. He’d been silent up to this point, his expression neutral. “It’s unconscionable. And we intend to put a stop to it, but for that, we need to find the source.”

Derek nodded. “Right. And we were planning to do just that, so Keras and I headed straight to the spire after we were done at the casino.”

That drew a series of blank stares. Marissa was the one who spoke up. “Just yerselves?”

“Either one of us could handle the first twenty or so floors on our own without much difficulty, and we were only planning to check the first few floors for clues. The plan was to try to find the spot where Tenjin was captured, and see if we could find any blood or other clues. Unfortunately, that wasn’t the problem. Someone has sealed the spire entirely. It’s impossibleto get in or out.”

Several pairs of eyes turned toward me. I opened my hands in a gesture of surrender. “You think Tristan sealed the spire somehow?”

Derek shook his head. “Not exactly. I think Tristan is one of the people involved, though, and he might be the easiest to find to get some answers. The other possibility is that Katashi sealed the spire himself to prevent any further interference to his own investigation. We don’t have a good way to contact him to ask, however, nor would he necessarily respond even if we did.”

“Do you have a way of finding Tristan?”

I had the book, but that was just a way of sending messages. I’d considered the possibility that it might be used to trace his location in the same way he seemed to be tracking me, but I didn’t know how to do it.

And I hadn’t told everyone about the book yet. I wasn’t quite sure if I wanted to.

“If you’d be willing to give us a sample of your blood, I think we could use it to locate Tristan.”

I folded my arms. “The spire blocks most forms of divination, even for people inside. That was one of the first things we checked when Tristan disappeared. People try to locate lost loved ones in the spire all the time, it doesn’t work.”

“True, under normal circumstances. But certain people are given the ability to circumvent that in order to do their jobs properly. Using it for personal gain is, of course, strictly forbidden.”

My eyes narrowed. “You’re talking about Whispers.”

“Yes, or other groups in the service of the visages. I believe that given the dire nature of the situation, we could find someone who would agree to help us.”

I wonder if there’s any chance Arbiters are on the list of people that can use detection magic inside the spires? It would make a degree of sense, since it’s an attunement that the visages give out directly, and we’re supposed to be some kind of assistants to the visages.

I can’t count on it, but I can try to learn an information gathering spell or two and test them next time I’m inside the spire.

In the meantime, I’ll need to look into other options.

I took a drink, pondering. “Orden was a Whisper. Tristan was, or is, aWhisper. How would we know if any given member of their organization is working with Tristan?”

“I don’t think we could decisively prove someone’s allegiance, but I have a few ideas for people Tristan and Orden might not have been willing to work with. Either due to ideological differences or personal ones.”

I turned toward Keras. “What about your magic? Would the tower block it?”

He shrugged. “I’ve never learned any dominion sorcery for information gathering. If my friends were here...” He shook his head. “But they’re not. And I’m honestly not sure it would work, either way. Whoever made these towers was familiar with my style of magic, they may have taken precautions.”

That was an interesting statement, but before I got a chance to follow it up with more questions, Derek spoke again. “I think I know someone who could do it, but I’d need Corin to agree to help first, and it could take a while for me to track them down. Probably a few months, at least. They were in Caelford, last I checked.”

I glanced to my right. Sera gave me a curt nod.

I turned back to Derek. “I’ll do it. But under one condition.”

Derek grinned. “You want to come with us when we enter the spire, I assume?”

I twisted my lips into a frown. “Am I really that predictable?” I tried not to wince at the chorus of chuckles that followed.

“I’ve talked to Keras about it, and it would be dangerous, but there are enough advantages that we’re willing to take you along. Even if we can get a divination spell to work from outside of the spire, it’s not going to give us enough to find Tristan, especially if he’s moving. If you’re with us, we can have the diviner cast the spell any time to get his current location. And if we do find Tristan, you’re the most likely to be able to talk him into cooperating.” He paused. “It’s also possible you could talk Katashi down if he gets angry at us for investigating this on our own.”

I wasn’t exactly sure that was true, but I wasn’t going to disagree with arguments that supported taking me along. “Okay, but you just said the spire was sealed. How are we getting in?”

Derek shook his head. “We’ll probably have to wait. Keras thinks he mightknow an alternate way in, but he’s going to have to get in contact with a friend. Use this time to prepare as heavily as you can, but be ready to go any day. If that spire opens up, I want to be able to jump in there within hours. I’ll be working to have a full team ready to go.”

“Okay. As for a team, I’d like to take—”

Derek waved a hand. “No other novices.” He raised both hands defensively to ward off the ensuing glares from my classmates. “It’s nothing personal, but even bringing one Carnelian along for something like this is a tremendous risk. We’re effectively losing two slots to bring Corin, because someone is going to have to protect him full-time. We’re going to take a balanced team of veterans, all Citrine or higher. This is not negotiable.”

Sera looked like she wanted to argue, but when she opened up her mouth, no words escaped. She settled with a frown.

Patrick spoke where she couldn’t, though. “Isn’t it more important to bring people you can trust in there? You don’t know who might be working with the bad guys.”

Derek shrugged a shoulder. “I’ve been climbing for years, Patrick. I know a lot of other climbers better than I know any of you. I can put a good group together. If it’s any consolation, I’ll probably be bringing Teft, and you know him.”

There was a round of confused blinking.

Patrick replied first. “Teft? Seriously? You think that makes us more comfortable? That guy is a jerk.”

I turned to Patrick. “No, it makes sense. I might not like his personality, but he’s already involved, and we can be reasonably confident he’s wasn’t working with Orden. If he was, she would have brought him into the spire with us. He’s Citrine-level, and he’s got an excellent attunement for fighting.” I paused. “Moreover, someone needs to sign the paperwork for me to be able to get back in the spire.”

“I hadn’t even considered that,” Derek admitted. “You’re right, a student isn’t getting in there without a teacher to escort them. Even then, going in with a full group of climbers is going to look a little strange, but we can probably make it work.”

I nodded. “So, that’s you, me, maybe Teft... I assume Keras?”

“I’ll be there. I intend to see this through, and I’m supposed to be watching over you.” Keras gestured at his eyes, then at me. If that was supposed to feel reassuring, it certainly didn’t.

“I will most likely ask Sheridan, but it depends on how they behave during the meeting tomorrow. I’m reasonably confident they weren’t working with Elora when I investigated months ago, but that could have changed. I’ll pry a bit, see if I can pull any secrets loose.”

“You could ask Professor Meltlake instead of Teft!” Patrick grinned at his own idea. “She’d be amazing!”

Derek rolled his eyes. “No, I will not be bringing Aunt Meltlake with me into the tower. Powerful or not, I’d never be able to stand her lecturing.”

“Aunt Meltlake?” Patrick sounded as confused as I felt.

“She’s my mother’s half-sister, and a Hartigan by birth. And she’s just as irritating as any member of my mother’s family, I assure you.”

Huh. I suppose that made a degree of sense, given House Hartigan’s reputation for powerful offensive magic in general.

Maybe I’d change my own name at some point, if I did something as amazing as evaporating a lake in a duel.

“Regardless,” Derek continued, “Aunt Meltlake is well past her prime. I’d prefer to bring people who have been in the tower recently. I have a list of names to check with. I expect to have a team assembled within a week or two, just to be on standby. The real problem is getting a Diviner with spells that can track people inside the spire, but I’ll get that sorted out eventually.” He turned to me. “Depending on how high Tristan is in there, we could be inside for weeks. You should start putting together equipment with that in mind.”

I nodded. “I don’t suppose you have extra magical items you could loan me for the trip, given how dangerous this could be?”

Derek seemed to consider that. “I’ll see what I can put together. My resources aren’t what they once were. You might have better luck with Keras.”

Keras shook his head. “I tend to travel light. Most items don’t work very well for me. I have a cache of equipment I’ve picked up from my various adventures, but it’s in Caelford.”

“Why won’t items work fer you?” Marissa sounded curious, and she was watching Keras intently.

“It has to do with my aura, or I suppose you’d call it a shroud. It’s not gray mana like yours, and it has a tendency to interfere with items. Only powerful ones, like my sword and mask or the Jaden Box...” He paused, blinking. “Hey, Corin. How full was the box when you got it?”

I tilted my head to the side. “Full?”

Keras grinned. “If you’re lucky, we might not have as much of a shortage as I thought. Toss me the box?”

I didn’t have it on me. “Hold on, I’ll go get it.”

I headed upstairs, bringing the box back down. I was hesitant to hand it to Keras — he clearly wanted it for his own reasons — but he could have taken it from me by force at any time if he wanted to.

I handed it to him.

“This should be fun. I need to make some space.”

He went and sat down on the floor in the middle of the room, setting the box down in front of him. “Retrieve: All Items.”

A moment later, Keras was surrounded by...stuff. All sorts of stuff.

At a glance, I saw dozens of weapons, at least two full suits of armor, several bags of various sizes, and dozens of bottles and vials. There must have been hundreds of pounds of equipment in total.

“Oh, Wrynn, you beautiful thing.” Keras lifted up a potion filled with red fluid and kissed the side of it, then opened the top of the box and put the potion down inside. It didn’t fit, completely, but... “Store Superior Healing Potion.”

The potion vanished.

I broke down in laughter, so hard I nearly cried.

I had taken a magic box filled with items into the tower, and I’d never eventried to get them out. I hadn’t even checked.

True, I probably wouldn’t have known there was a way to simply empty everything out — that wasn’t in the documentation — but checking for a healing potion? That wasn’t out of the question.

I might have been able to save Vera without making a magic rock, or maybe found a better solution to any number of other situations.

I turned to Keras. “That kind of potion wouldn’t help Sera, would it?”

He shook his head. “No, it’s just for wounds. Don’t think it would do anything for the kind of mana scarring she has.”

I nodded. I expected that, but it was good to check. His magic wasfunctionally distinct from what I was used to, so I didn’t want to assume that “healing potion” meant the same thing to him that it did to me.

Keras lifted up a glimmering dagger etched with runes, turning it over in his hands with genuine fondness. “I remember you.” He gingerly put the hilt into the box. “Store: Silverbrand.”

The dagger vanished. He turned his head to me. “Most of this is mundane,” he gestured at a full backpack that had appeared at his side, “But there are a few things that might interest you. And moreover, it’s a good way to keep a whole bunch of non-magical supplies without having to worry about the weight.”

Another thing I hadn’t considered. “What’s the maximum capacity?” “Not sure, exactly. It’ll just stop storing when it gets there, though, so youdon’t have to worry about it too much.”

Keras patted a hand on the ground next to him. “Come help me organize this when you’re done eating, and we’ll see what we can find.”

It wasn’t long before all of us, even Derek, were sitting on the floor and shifting around mysterious items with legitimate excitement.

Sera, who had already brought paper downstairs to aid in her communication, started working on a catalogue of everything we found in the box and the words we were using to store them. It would be a useful reference, because Wrynn had stored a lot of stuff.

I dug through piles of equipment, searching for anything that interested me. There were coins, flasks, potion bottles... even a few entire bars of metal.

She also had a surprising number of flowers. Either she was the sentimental type or an alchemist. Possibly both. Based on the fact that most of them were either bound in bundles or inside labeled vials, I was guessing the latter.

Perhaps more interesting, the labels on those vials were in a foreign language. It looked almost like one of the two lettering systems they used in Dalenos, but not quite. I showed a vial to Keras. “Can you read his?”

He lifted it. “Hm? Oh, sure. It’s in Liadran. Just says ‘aldenleaf, five units’.”

“Huh.” I put the vial down. I hadn’t heard of that language. Maybe I could ask him more about it later, but I had a higher priority for the moment.

I shifted on my attunement, searching through the piles for anything that glowed with magic. I found a handful of items that glowed, but it was hard totell how powerful they were. Much like Keras, many of them had auras that didn’t seem to fit into the standard color framework.

A hand-mirror glowed purple. A necklace had a turquoise glow that rippled like waves.

I considered the possibility that purple was simply higher on the color scale than even Sapphire. While that was possible, I suspected these items simply had auras that didn’t work the same way. It wasn’t impossible; Keras was one precedent for it, and I’d also seen elemental auras that glowed with the color of the element, rather than a representation of the item’s power.

Maybe that was what was going on here?A couple rings and what looked like a hairpin had more conventional yellow auras, but I still couldn’t be sure they were Citrine items. They had some runes etched into them, but I wasn’t familiar with any of the ones that I saw.

There were three more daggers that had magical glows — apparently, Wrynn Jaden liked daggers. One had a lime green aura, the second was crimson, and the third one glowed black. I didn’t even want to touch that one. I didn’t know what a black aura meant, but it didn’t sound good.

I warned the others, of course.

The last glowing item I found was an earring that glowed with a soft white hue, almost transparent. Keras gasped aloud when he saw it.

“Let me see that.” He gestured, and I handed the earring over. Keras turned it over in his fingers reverently. “I should have asked you to open the box sooner.”

I tilted my head to the side. “I take it that thing is powerful?”

“No. Probably the weakest item in the bunch in terms of raw power. But it’s the most important, at least to me.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Sentimental value?” “No, practical. Did you see a second one?” I shook my head. “Nope.”

“Good. This is part of a matched set. They’re designed to allow communication with each other.” He raised it to an eye, then hovered it next to his ear. “But I don’t think it’s active.”

Marissa leaned over. “Yer lady friend leave that for you, then?”

He nodded. “Not for me, necessarily, but I’d be one of the ones to know how to use it. I thought it was unusual that Wrynn left the box behind. It’s useful, as I’m sure you can see, and she rarely parts with it. This might help explain what she was up to.”

I frowned at that. “Seems too circuitous. How’d she know you, or whoever she wanted to get the box, would end up with it?”

“Sorry, I phrased that poorly. I don’t think she abandoned the box so that someone would find the earring. That wouldn’t work.”

Keras paused, seemingly considering how to explain. “I think she left the box for some other reason, and if I can get this to work, it might help tell me why. It uses sound magic. Maybe she kept the other earring, or maybe she even stored a message inside. Problem is, one of our other friends made this, not me. And she made lots of them — with different passwords.”

“As interesting as that is,” Derek cut in, “Is it useful to us right now? We have a short time to come up with a gift for Deni, and I’m seeing some prime candidates here, assuming any of it is useful.”

Keras closed his hand around the earring. “This is personally valuable to me, but it would have no use as a gift. There are plenty of communication items in your magic shops. As for the other items, none of them belong to you. They belong to Wrynn.”

Derek shrugged. “Provided she’s still alive. Death would be the simplest explanation for why she doesn’t have the box, yes?”

Keras gave Derek a sharp look. “Simplest, but not the most likely. When last we met, Wrynn was about my equal in a fight, and vastly more flexible. I’d give her better than even odds against one of your visages. It would take a great many enemies to threaten her.”

“Or the rigors of age.” Derek started to lean down toward one of the daggers. Marissa smacked his hand away.

“Yer bein’ a jerk, m’lord.”

I tensed for a moment — I didn’t know if Derek was going to take being insulted in his own home well — but fortunately, he just laughed.

“Oh, Keras knows I’m just teasing.” Keras continued to glare.

Derek made a forced smile. “Well, regardless of Wrynn Jaden’s status, I think a bit of pragmatism might be appropriate here. She abandoned this years ago. Clearly she couldn’t need the contents that badly.”

I turned my head to Keras. “Derek has a point. We probably need these items a great deal more than she does right now. Not even necessarily for gifts. If we’re going to the tower and these might be useful...”

Keras closed his eyes, then shook his head a moment later. “Very well. I recognize most of these, and I can tell you what those do. For the ones I don’t recognize, we’ll need someone to identify them.”

“I can arrange for a Diviner to visit,” Derek chimed in happily.

“Once we’ve determined the functions, I will loan some of these items out, with the understanding that they all belong to Wrynn. If we end up trading something as a gift to this Sheridan to heal Sera,” he turned his head toward Sera. “Sera will owe me something comparable to pay Wrynn back.”

Sera gave a curt nod.

“Good.” He turned to Derek. “Similarly, if any loaned items are broken or go missing, I’ll expect them to be replaced.”

“That’s quite acceptable. And, for what it’s worth, I have quite a trove of items myself from my climbing days. They’re not all here, of course, but I have a few things lying about that might interest you. Perhaps we can arrange for some trades?”

“I will consider it. I have some idea of which items Wrynn would be more willing to part with, but I don’t wish to presume too much on her behalf.”

“Fine, fine. For now, tell us what you know?”

Keras nodded and sat down next to the magic items pile.

He picked up one of the daggers first. It had a wavy blade, the kind I’d always associated with dark rituals in old stage plays. “Couple of Wrynn’s backup weapons here. This is a nasty one. Makes its own poison.”

Keras set it back down, picking up the second one. “Don’t recognize this one. I can sense a connection with the Dominion of Flame, though.”

“How does that work?” I considered my question, then added, “I mean, your sense. I didn’t think you could see auras.”

“I can’t.” Keras put the dagger down. “But I can feel some of them, especially for types of mana I’m familiar with. The sensation varies based on the specific type of mana. I can feel warmth from the dagger, even when I’m not touching it, and I know it’s not physically that hot. My aura is sensing the flame inside and sending me a signal, which feels like heat.”

“That’s not all that different from how I can sense auras,” Derek added.

“Many attuned with hand or leg attunements eventually develop a sense like that. But we can’t sense the mana from anything unless it’s inside our shrouds.”

Patrick moved over to sit next to Keras. “Uh, I don’t want to presume, but if that’s a fire dagger, is there any chance I might be able to borrow it? You know, just for a little while?”

“You’re an Elementalist, correct?” Patrick nodded in reply.

“No, not this, then. None of the daggers.”

Patrick looked like Keras had just thrown those daggers at a puppy. “...Oh, okay. Sorry, I guess.”

“You don’t want a dagger as an Elementalist, unless it’s a last resort. Don’t want you thinking about one of these as an option. In a real fight, if someone gets that close, they’re more likely to use it against you than you are to use it to your advantage. You want something with range. Either a true ranged weapon, like a bow, or something with physical reach.”

Patrick looked back up. “...But we don’t have anything like that, do we?” “Not in Wrynn’s pile, no. But these spires seem to have magic weapons allover the place.”

“Yeah, I guess. Just not sure I’ll make it far enough in the year to get back in there.”

Keras frowned. “Is this academy that difficult?”

Marissa jumped in. “Quite a difficult one, m’lord Keras. Very few make it to the second year, and fewer still graduate.”

That was...a bit of an exaggeration, but it wasn’t going to make me look any worse, so I didn’t correct it.

Keras nodded thoughtfully. “All right, so you need an edge. I have some extra weapons, but they’re not in Valia. Maybe I could bring you one before the end of the year, if there’s time.”

I thought about that. “Keras, we were talking about trying to enchant something for Deni together before. Maybe we could practice by trying to enchant a weapon for Patrick?”

Keras turned to look at me, then to Patrick, taking in Patrick’s wide-eyed look of hope. “Sure, sure. I can see this means a lot to you.”

I considered options. “I have a saber I enchanted with some basic transference sorcery that we could work on improving?”

“I have a tougher time working with things that are already enchanted. Too much of a risk that I’d damage them. But I’ve got another idea. Sera, pass me the silver bar next to you.”

Sera found a silvery-looking bar in the stack of metal bars and passed it over. I’d just...assumed that it was made out of something more mundane, like a type of steel. A silver bar was worth a relative fortune.

Another glance told me that there weren’t any bars of gold, sadly.

Keras turned the bar over in his hands, feeling the weight. “This should do.” He glanced over at me. “Corin, you wanted to see some of my type of sorcery. Watch and learn.”

As I watched, I realized he wasn’t just flipping the bar over.

He was rolling it between his hands. Reshaping it, like flour dough.

The metal rippled in his hands, never fully turning to liquid, but shimmering enough that it looked almost gelatinous.

Marissa’s jaw dropped wide open as she processed the same thing that I was.

He moved his hands again, laying the bar on the floor, and took two fingers to draw a portion of it downward.

He plunged his fingers into the metal, piercing it without resistance, and pulled sections to the side.

He was making a hilt.

Derek leaned closer. “Silver? Pretty, but isn’t that a bit impractical for a weapon? It’ll break almost as easily as you’re molding it.”

“This is only the first part.” Keras continued to weave the metal between his fingers, beginning to roll the bottom section of the bar into a cylindrical shape between his hands. “When I’m finished, it won’t be silver. It won’t be steel, either. It will be something greater.”

His hands moved the material easily, but the work continued for minutes. It was probably close to an hour before he finished. Not one of us looked away.

I knew of metal magic. The God Beast of Dalenos was associated with the metal element, and I’d heard of a Forgemaster attunement that could use metal magic.

I’d never heard of anything like this. I’d never dreamed of anyone working metal with such ease.

Keras had the basic shape of a hilt in minutes, but he worked with diligence, hardening some sections while he made others pliable. When the pommel was complete, he traced runes in the air, which burned into the metal. Each letter was only the thickness of a fingernail, and he fit dozens upon the surface.

It was when Keras was sculpting the crossguard that a look of recognition crossed Patrick’s face and he uttered a word in wonder. “Dawnbringer.”

Keras turned to Patrick with an expression of surprise. “You recognize her?”

Patrick nodded reverently. “I’ve read about the Six Sacred Swords since I was a child. I know this isn’t the real thing, but even seeing something that looks like one of them...it’s beautiful.”

Keras grinned. “I’m not done yet. Pass me three of Wrynn’s gold regals — those are the coins with the holes in the center.”

Sera passed the coins over, and Keras turned them over in his hand. “Make that five total. Pass me two more.”

As Sera moved to comply, Keras began to roll the gold coins in his hands. He was making them into round sections like he’d done with the handle, but he made them much thinner.

He’s making wire, I realized. He didn’t wrap the wire around the grip like I’d expected, though. He started pressing it against the silver of the crossguard, then weaving it through the silvery metal like thread.

Keras was drawing letters in a golden script, stretching the writing across the full surface. I couldn’t read a word of it, but it looked like yet another language. Maybe it was another form of runes, but I’d never seen runes interconnected in a cursive format like this writing was.

Either way, the result was beautiful. I’d never been one for the aesthetics of a weapon, but the gold-on-silver was a good look, and there was something ephemerally pleasing about how Keras was weaving it.

It was beautiful, like the echo of something transcendent. Something lost.

Keras turned his head toward the metal pile. “I’ll need another of the silver bars. It’s time to forge the blade. This will take some time, so feel free to rest or eat if you need to. It’s not going to be that interesting.”

We all stayed, of course.

He folded the metal bar in his hands, flattening it, stretching it into the shape of a blade. Then he folded it over, time and time again, in a process I assumed was some sort of analogue to folding steel for a sword blade. I was no expert blacksmith, but I’d heard of the concept. I didn’t think it applied to silver, but he’d mentioned that the metal would no longer be silver when he was done.

Normally, when faced with new magic, I’d have a million questions.

And I did here, too. In my mind. But I couldn’t bring myself to utter them.

Keras didn’t seem to have any difficulty concentrating, but it seemed inappropriate to interrupt. Like stopping a brilliant singer to ask about the meaning of a particular line.

So, I waited, and I watched.

I didn’t forget my questions, of course. I was still me. There would be time for magic theory later.

True to his word, Keras worked for hours on forging the blade. Like with the hilt, he wove gold into the blade, tracing a gleaming wave straight through the center, stopping a few inches from the tip. He mirrored it perfectly on the opposite side.

It had a small protrusion in the bottom that he inserted into the hilt, and when the metal met, it rippled and merged. When he was finished, the weapon looked to be forged of a single piece of metal. There were no cracks, no seams.

When the weapon looked finished, Keras closed his eyes, placing two fingers against the sword’s blade just above the hilt. A single rune burned into the surface, glowing gold.

When his eyes opened, the blade was glowing a faint golden hue.

He turned the weapon over, holding it by the blade, and offered it toward me. “Your turn.”

I accepted the sword by the hilt, staring blankly. I’d been so stunned by the whole process that I’d almost forgotten that we were going to try to combine our sorcery. “...right. Can you tell me what your enchantment does?”

“Nothing other than make it glow, so far. I’ve just opened a connection with it. I also changed the way the metal itself works, but I wouldn’t call that an enchantment. It’s not using mana anymore; I altered the properties of the silver and gold. It’ll be stronger than steel and lighter than silver. I need you to put some mana in there so I can actually have something to work with, and you can also add any additional functions you want.”

I nodded. “I can do that. Let me get my tools.”

I sat the sword down reverently, heading upstairs and retrieving my etching rod.

When I got back, people were having food. I didn’t blame them. Keras had been at it for something like six hours now.

After a few moments of deliberation, I joined everyone else in a dinner break. That gave me some time to think about what I wanted, and to talk to Patrick.

“What do you want this sword to do, Patrick?”

He blinked. “I, uh, don’t know. This is just so...it’s amazing. I never thought I’d actually get a sword like this. I mean, I thought you might enchant something for me, and that’s great and all, but...”

I laughed. “Don’t worry. I get it. I’m no Keras — at least not yet. It’s not every day you get a sword forged with ancient magic by...” I glanced at Keras, who was biting into a sandwich. “I still have no idea what you are, Keras.”

“Just me. I hope.” His words could have easily been a joke, but it didn’t sound that way. He sounded...introspective, maybe.

I let the subject drop. He’d tell us more about himself when he was ready.

Besides, he looked ravenous. He was on his third sandwich and showed no sign of slowing down.

I turned back to Patrick. “You said you recognized this as being similar to an existing weapon. Do you want it to be like that?”

“Wow. Uh, yeah, that’d be amazing. If you could do that?”

I shrugged. “Don’t know what it does. I’ve heard of Dawnbringer, but legends often get exaggerated. I sincerely doubt it can burn entire cities with the Dawnfire’s light.”

Keras very nearly choked on his food. “...They say that about Dawn?”

Patrick beamed. “Oh, yeah! Like, there’s this story about how Ishyeal Dawnsglow used it to wipe out an entire legion of monsters that came out of the Tortoise Spire.”

Keras frowned, set his food down, took a drink, and then just stared silently at his plate for a moment.

That was odd.

I tried to pick the conversation back up. “Okay, light powers. I don’t thinkI can do that. Light mana isn’t something I can use. Keras?”

“Hm? Oh, yeah, light. Sure. I can do light mana, but I can’t actually charge a weapon with mana the way you can. I can’t enchant weapons the way you can in general.”

“What’s that rune on the hilt, then?”

“Something different. It lets me sense the blade and channel mana into it— but not in the way an Enchanter would. I can use it to alter the structure of the mana for the weapon, but if there’s no mana inside, I can’t do anything with it. And I can’t make runes that generate mana like you can.”

Patrick looked thoughtful. “So, it’s like what Derek does with his weapons?”

Derek must have heard his own name and taken it as a signal to jump in. “Not really. I contract with creatures then bind them to weapons, magical weapons or otherwise. It sounds like Keras is more or less binding himself to the weapon?”

Keras nodded. “That’s a good way of putting it. Temporarily, in this case, so I can make modifications after Corin does his part.”

“And you needed to make the bond before I did my part?” I asked. “I didn’t strictly need to, it’s just that my magic has a tendency tobe...damaging. If I have a connection in place before you make the enchantments, it should lower the risk of something going wrong.”

I didn’t quite understand what he meant by his magic being damaging, but he sounded like he was being deliberately vague, so I didn’t press the issue.

When I’d seen him fight, his magic was clearly specialized for offense, so maybe it had something to do with that.

I finished eating and brought down my books of runes, thinking it over.

I set the first book down and flipped it open. “Okay, I think I know what we need to do. I’ve never actually done this before, but there are instructions in here for ‘priming’ a rune so that someone else can contribute mana to it.

That’s how an enchanter normally makes something like, say, a fire sword, even though he doesn’t have fire mana.”

I traced a rune on the page. “Basically, I draw a rune, then I fill it with a ‘container’ of gray mana. Then the other person channels mana into the rune, and when it hits the capacity of the container, theoretically the rune should activate. The important part is to stop channeling more mana into it when the container is full, otherwise you break the container and bad things happen.”

Derek walked over. “It’s not hard, actually. I’ve helped Enchanters on several occasions. Whoever is contributing the mana to the runes should be able to feel the gray mana straining when you’re reaching the capacity. Just don’t push too much mana in there too fast. When the rune starts to glow, you’re done.”

I was sincerely grateful for that knowledge. This whole thing was sounding a little intimidating. I’d hoped to enchant cooperatively at some point, but this scale was a little bigger than I’d imagined for my first project. “Okay, thank you, Derek. I think what I’m going to do is draw runes for holding light mana, recharging light mana over time, and a maximum capacity for absorbing light mana. That combination of runes is fairly standard.”

“Light and fire,” Keras interjected. I turned to him. “Light and fire?”

He nodded. “If we’re making this similar to Dawnbringer, her rays use both light and fire. And you’re going to want some enhancement and transference, too.”

“I can do the same thing for those, but just to be clear, these won’t actually do anything other than put mana in the weapon and store it. I’m not sure how to let it do Dawnbringer’s fire attack.”

Keras shook his head. “You won’t have to. Once it has all the right types of mana in it, I should be able to give the weapon the functions it needs.”

I frowned. “I thought you couldn’t make runes on your own, though.” “That’s what the bond is for. Well, one element of it, anyway. Once there’smana in there, I can work with it. And, to be clear, I can make runes. They just work somewhat differently.”

Okay, fair enough.

I started flipping through my books, finding all the relevant runes and thinking. “How high of a capacity do you want on these?”

Keras shrugged. “As high as you can go?”

I’d expected that. “Best I can handle is Sunstone, even if I’m just doing the containers. And the containers are only a tiny fraction of the total mana necessary for the enchantment.”

“Can you put multiple containment runes on it for a higher capacity?”

I raised a hand to my lips, considering how best to explain. “Yes, but any individual spell effect can only draw from one capacity rune at a time. Thatmeans the strongest spells an item can cast can’t take up more mana than what a single capacity rune would hold. Also, you need a separate recharging rune for each capacity rune, and that gets expensive and time consuming.”

“Okay, that’s good to know. I won’t put any spells on it that take up more than the mana capacity of one container, then. If you can handle the containers, I can handle the rest. We can upgrade the rune to a higher level when you get powerful enough to do that. At that point, I can enhance the sword’s other capabilities.”

“Where should I put the runes?”

Keras pointed at an empty section on the crossguard, just above the grip. “Here. You’re going to use that tool?”

I nodded.

“I’ll make it easier.”

He touched the crossguard. The metal softened. “That’s a pretty amazing trick.”

With the softened metal, it was easy to etch the runes into the surface.

When I was done, Keras waved his hand again, cleaning up any imperfections in my cuts and hardening the metal again.

I was a little jealous. Enchanting would be much easier if I could do that. But etching was always the easy part, anyway. Now came the hard part.

I checked the exact amount of gray mana necessary to make a container for each rune, then got to work.

And for once, my work was easier than I expected.

Making the containers in the runes was very nearly identical to making a mana crystal, just in a rune shape instead of a prism shape. It was even easier in some respects, since the containers were designed to be hollow and extremely thin.

The total mana requirement for a Sunstone-level container was 7.2 mana, or one fiftieth of a Class 3 mana crystal. I’d only managed to make crystals that held three mana before, but I’d made them in droves without much effort once I’d gotten the hang of it.

This was harder, but within my capabilities. A Citrine-level shell would have been six times more, though, and I didn’t think I had a chance of handling that.

And certainly not twelve of them in a day.

I made six shells, took a break for an hour, and then made six more. When I was done, Keras tried to charge one.

It shattered instantly.

There was a flicker of light in the rune, but fortunately, no explosion.

Keras muttered a curse I didn’t recognize, and I rebuilt it. Then he tried again. This time, a bit more slowly.

After a minute, his jaw had tensed, and he was breathing heavily...but the rune began to glow.

Keras pulled his hand away, taking a deep breath. “One down.” Eleven to go.

I let Keras charge the other two light runes before I got an idea. “Hey, Patrick.”

“Yeah?”

“Why don’t you try charging one of the fire runes? I mean, at least part way. It’s going to be your sword.”

“C...can I?” He looked positively gleeful at the idea.

“Yeah, but to be clear, you’re not going to be able to fill it all the way up. These are Sunstone-level runes. I’m doing the easy part, which is only seven mana each. Keras has been putting three hundred and sixty mana into them.”

I didn’t say it, but Keras didn’t look any more tired than when he’d started.

The only stress for him seemed to come from channeling the mana slowly enough to avoid breaking the runes or the weapon itself.

I handed Patrick the mana watch. “Check your total.” “Uh, it says 49?”

“Okay, good. Just about the same as my attunement. We’ll get you stronger, but for now, let’s be safe. You’re going to channel 30 mana in there, then stop. Then Keras will handle the remaining 330.”

Patrick grinned. “Got it.”

Derek sat down across from us. “You know what? I can help, too. I’ll finish the fire runes so Keras can rest. Assuming you all want me to.”

Patrick clapped his hands together. “More the merrier!”

Keras gave Derek a nod. “I’d be grateful for your help. The fewer runes I have to handle myself, the fewer chances I have to break it.”

Patrick seemed to struggle to put enough mana into the rune at first. I couldn’t blame him, he’d probably never used more than a couple points to activate an item, and casting a spell probably felt completely different.

But, all told, it only took him a few minutes to get the thirty mana into the first fire rune.

Derek finished the rest of it in under a minute. And, of course, he didn’t look tired at all.

In spite of his usual attitude, though, I don’t think Derek was just trying to show off the fact that he could help as easily as Keras could. When he smiled afterward and shook Patrick’s hand, I saw true comradery there.

Making something, it seemed, brought out the best in all of us. Transference mana was last. I was tempted to try to do some of it myself,but after thirteen runes at 7.2 mana each, my hand was burning pretty bad. Taking the break in the middle had been smart, but it hadn’t been long enough for me to completely recover from that level of strain. I could have drawn from my mental mana, but I didn’t want to.

So, I let Keras handle it. He seemed to have an easier time with these, going through them faster without breaking a single one.

And then it was done. Twelve runes glowing on the hilt.

“Okay, great.” Keras took a breath. “Now, let’s get the other side.” I stared at him incredulously. “You’re joking.”

“Not at all. Need to make sure the sides of the sword match. And besides, I’m going to need more mana to work with.”

I sighed. “Fine, fine. But first, I need a break. Can you tell us what the rest of the items do?”

“Fine, fine. Let’s go.”

We headed back over to the item pile.

That foreboding looking dagger with the black aura? It was gone.

I stared at the spot where it’d been lying last. Keras was staring right along with me.

“That’s bad,” I offered. “Really bad,” he agreed.

***We spent the next hour or so searching the house for the missing weapon, but with no success.

Patrick voiced what I suspected most of us were wondering. “How’d it disappear? Daggers don’t just get up and walk away...do they?”

“More than likely, it teleported.” Keras knelt near the spot the dagger had been laying on the floor, turning his head toward Derek. “I take it the wards on this building are for keeping things out, not for keeping anything inside?”

“Right. It didn’t vanish instantly, though. That’s unusual.”

Keras stood up. “Probably was waiting for us to be distracted, so it could get a head start on us.”

“You’re saying it was intelligent?” I asked.

“Almost certainly. It was one of the few magical items in the box I didn’t recognize at all. Maybe it was dangerous enough that Wrynn didn’t want to tell me she had it, or maybe she just got it recently. Either way, your guesses about it are as good as mine.”

Patrick frowned. “Could it be Luck’s Touch?” I hadn’t heard of that one. “What’s that?”

Keras answered. “Intelligent shape-shifting weapon, usually associated with legends of Aayara Haven, the Lady of Thieves. And yes, it’s plausible Wrynn could have had Luck’s Touch. She and Aayara don’t get along, but Luck’s Touch is notoriously fickle. If he wanted to get on Aayara’s nerves, working with Wrynn for a while would be one way to accomplish that.”

I nodded. “Okay. Any other possibilities?”

“There are numerous intelligent weapons out there. It could very easily have been one bound with a monster, like the ones I use,” Derek offered.

Patrick looked thoughtful. “Maybe it was the Midnight Star?”

Keras gave Patrick an inquisitive look. “Doubtful, that’s supposed to have three blades, sort of like a trident. Surprised you’ve even heard about that, or Luck’s Touch for that matter. Those are legends from my own homeland.”

“Ah, I like to study weapons and monsters in general. Stories of those go back to before the exodus to Kaldwyn.”

“Hrm. Good to know. Derek, any chance you know a Diviner that can track the destination of a teleportation spell?”

“Of course, but without something tied to the item, tracking it will be virtually impossible. A physical description is insufficient.”

I thought about that. “Would the aura from the weapon have seeped into the wood where it was lying?”

“No, not in just a few hours. If it’d been sitting there for weeks, maybe.” “Beggin’ your pardon m’lords, but if it teleported, would that’ve left atrail?”

We all looked at Marissa, surprised that she’d interjected. She was usually quiet when Derek was involved in a conversation.

Derek frowned. “That...might work. I can ask. Let’s finish cataloguing the rest of this, then I’ll go find a Diviner. I’d rather know what we’re dealing with before anything else wanders off.”

Keras gestured at the remaining items. “Nothing too exciting here, I’m afraid.”

He lifted up the mirror first. “Another communication device. Works like the earrings, but with images rather than sound. I would have been more excited about it, but I have one of my own, and it doesn’t seem to work at all. I’ll try to get this to function, but my best guess is that the paired mirror is out of range.”

Keras set that aside and picked up one of the rings. It was silver with a design of a leaf, or maybe a feather. “Jumping ring. Motion— sorry, you’d call it transference magic. Fairly straightforward, it lets you jump much further.”

I looked at the ring with renewed interest. “Further? Does it trigger when you jump and add an additional burst of force, or do you trigger it manually somehow?”

“Not sure, never used this one, just saw Wrynn with it. I think you activate it manually, so I suppose that adds a bit of flexibility, but a little bit of a cost as well.”

I nodded at that. “Okay, thanks.”

He picked up the other ring, turned it over, and set it back down. This one was gold with a single blue gemstone. “Not sure about this one. We’ll have to have the Diviner look it over.”

Next, a necklace with a spiral-shaped translucent crystal. “This is easily the strongest item in the bunch. Surprised she left it in the box. It blocks most mind-affecting spells.” He smirked at Derek. “I can think of a few people who might need something like this.”

Derek folded his arms. “One time, Keras. It happened one time.”

Keras shrugged a single shoulder. “Well, if you don’t think you’ll need it.” Derek leaned over and snatched the necklace out of Keras’ hand. “Fine.

I’m borrowing it. We can talk about a trade later.”

“Thought so.” Keras laughed, picking up the last of the glowing items — the hairpin. “Ah, yeah, Wrynn loves these. I’m sure everyone’s heard stories about hairpins being used as emergency lockpicks? Well, that rarely works well in practice. Except if you have a magic hairpin.”

Now that was interesting, maybe even more than the necklace. I leaned a little closer. “Think it’d work on chests or doors in the tower?”

“Don’t know. I usually just break those. But since Katashi seemed upset about my habit, it may be worth trying this out. You want to borrow it?”

I nodded hastily. “You bet I do. Also, the jumping ring.” He blinked. “Really?”

“Definitely. Mobility is one of my biggest weaknesses, especially compared to someone like you or Derek. I still wouldn’t be able to keep up with you, but I might slow you down a bit less.”

Keras handed over the ring and the pin. “Thanks.”

My response was subdued, but inside, I was positively gleeful. Even if I was just getting to borrow them, I loved having new magical items to play with. I didn’t know if the hairpin would actually work when I needed it to, but I could already think of several rooms where the ring might have helped.

“Before I forget to ask, how do I actually use the hairpin?”

“Oh, just stick it inside the lock. If you touch the tumblers, it should force them to realign.”

Huh. That implied it had some kind of detection magic built in, otherwise it couldn’t know how the locks worked and how to realign them.

Fascinating.

I wanted to test that immediately, but I had a feeling Derek wouldn’t likeme tinkering with his locks.

Instead, I slipped on the ring. “Anyone want to make sure I don’t fall off the roof?”

Patrick laughed. “Oh, I have to see this. Sera, Mara, you coming?”

We headed up to the roof, which was definitely the best place to practice untested transportation magic.

Definitely.

***I managed to avoid knocking myself off the roof the first time I used the ring.

Not the second time, though.

“Oh, goddess! Levitate!” Patrick shouted.

...And I floated safely down to the ground.

My friends gazed over the edge, and I waved up at them sheepishly. “I’m fine, I’m fine.”

The amount that the ring pushes me is based on the amount of mana that I send into the ring. It’s probably converting gray mana into transference, as Keras mentioned, or possibly air. Maybe a combination of both.

Which means, if I use a little more from down here...

I jumped, then activated the ring, and flew back onto the roof.

My descent was slower than it should have been, even without Patrick’s intervention. Apparently, whoever built the ring was smart enough to realize that jumping high would result in falling from great heights.

Still, I appreciated Patrick’s quick thinking when I’d fallen. A fall wouldn’t have killed me either way — my sigils and ring of regeneration would have saved me — but it sure could have hurt.

I landed among my friends with a smile. “I could get used to this.”

A bit more tinkering gave me a better idea of the ring’s intended uses...and maybe a few other options.

After that, it was time to try out something I’d been waiting even longer to tinker with.

“Patrick, come over here.”

“Sure!”

“Take off your glove.”

He frowned, but complied. “Did I do something wrong?”

Oops, did the social failure thing again. He probably thinks that’s symbolic or something.

“No, no. I want to try out my new attunement and see if I can make you more powerful.”

His expression brightened. “Oooh! Am I the first one?” I nodded. “Yep, haven’t tried it on anyone else yet.”

I considered explaining my logic about Marissa and Sera having just received similar infusions of mana from other sources, but after considering it, I realized that would just diminish his happiness at being the first one I picked.

He stuck his hand closer. “Okay, let’s do this. Hit me with all you’ve got.”

I grinned, checking my mana watch. 65/84. I’d recovered almost all of my mana while we’d rested, and then used a bit of it again to tinker with the ring. My hand was still hurting, but it was tolerable for the moment.

I turned my Enchanter attunement on. It’d help me monitor his aura to see what happened.

With that done, I took Patrick’s hand. I sent a surge of mana through my attunement into his. The aura around my hand flashed, then glowed white while the attunement was active.

That was unexpected — it didn’t glow like that when I was just enchanting an item. The aura must have been the purification function at work.

From my side, it didn’t feel any different from the usual tingling sensation of sending my mana into an object. As I spent more time, the tingling would give way to burning, and then throbbing along with my pulse.

I didn’t know what it would feel like to him, though. “Does that hurt at all?”

“No, but it’s...maybe a little uncomfortable. It feels like my hand is filling up with water or something and that the water wants to get out.”

Not a bad analogy for what I was doing to the attunement, really. “I’ll just charge it a little more, then—”

His aura flickered, and his knees buckled for a moment. He stumbled awayfrom me, his aura shifting from transparent to crimson.

The rune on his hand changed.

“W...woah!”

Marissa caught him before he could fall over. I stepped closer. “You okay?”

“Yeah, just, uh, wow. I think I need to spend some of this.”

Marissa helped Patrick stand back up, then he turned his hand upward and cast a blast of lightening into the air.

He took a deep breath and his aura faded back from Carnelian down to Quartz.

His rune shifted back, too, changing to the simpler Quartz style.

I patted him on the shoulder. “Better now?”

Patrick nodded. “Yeah...that was just more intense than I expected. What happened?”

Oh, right. He couldn’t see what I could see. “You hit Carnelian for just a second.”

“Really? That is so amazing! Can you do it again?”

I found myself grinning, infected by his enthusiasm. “Yeah, but I’m not supposed to push someone over their maximum capacity more than once per week. We didn’t really push you to your limit — that’d be temporarily doubling your mana — but I don’t think we should risk breaking any rulesuntil I have a better idea of what I’m doing.”

“Aww. I finally hit Carnelian and I barely got to do anything with it.” He laughed. “But it was still great! Thank you, Corin.”

“No problem.” I subconsciously wiped my hand on my shirt. Touching someone else still wasn’t easy for me. The moment of experimentation had overridden my reticence toward touch, but now the aftermath was hitting me hard.

“It only took me a few moments, so you’re already very close. You should hit Carnelian permanently soon. If you haven’t hit it by next week on your own, I’ll give you a boost once a week until you get there.”

“That sounds amazing! Thanks!” He stretched his arms. “I think I could still use some more exercise, though. You want to practice a bit?”

I shook my head. “Think I need to rest for a few.”

Really, I just needed a few minutes of not dealing with people. “Maybe one of the other two will spar with you?”

Marissa waved him over. I found a corner as far away as possible and sat down to watch.

Sera sat down next to me in silence.

She was intruding on my isolation...but I found myself being bothered less than I expected.

Maybe it was just because I didn’t need to talk to her, but Sera didn’t bother me the same way that other people did, even among my friends. I didn’t know why, but at the moment, I didn’t really need to think about it.

I did, however, think about other things in those next minutes of silence. Like how much fun it had been to spend some time experimenting with my friends, even if it had ultimately proven to be too intense to continue.

It also made me realize that I’d taken an uncharacteristic risk by tinkering with the ring on the roof. True, I’d nearly blown myself up when I’d first built my gauntlet, but I’d taken what I’d considered to be reasonable precautions.

This time? My main precaution was bringing my friends.

And it’d worked. Even if the ring hadn’t had a built in safety function, Patrick would have saved me. I’d trusted them, and they’d helped me.

That was...a surprisingly good feeling.

Especially after everything I’d been through with the tower.

Jin came back to my mind without an express invitation, and Tristan quickly followed.

There was a part of me that felt like any trust that I formed was just going to be betrayed.

I shoved that part of me aside as hard as I could. One moment of joy couldn’t banish everything that had happened, but it was a good start, and I was going to bask in it for a while.

Adding to my own positivity was Patrick’s obvious awe at the replica of Dawnbringer that we’d been working on. It wasn’t quite finished yet, but it was already obviously Patrick’s favorite thing in the world.

He was having the time of his life just swinging it at Marissa, even if she was deftly dodging or deflecting every strike before it could connect.

It was good that we hadn’t actually finished the sword yet, because I would have had to step in and stop him from using it if the weapon was more dangerous. I didn’t trust shield sigils to stop whatever crazy magic Keras ended up imbuing it with.

Patrick nearly ended up going off the roof, too, before their sparring match was over.

For a while, Sera and I just watched Patrick and Marissa’s sparring practice. After a bit, though, she passed me a note.

Thanks for working so hard to find something to trade for me. With all these items, we’ll probably have something Sheridan wants.

I wasn’t so certain about that. If anything, the intelligent dagger that had...wandered off seemed like the most likely candidate for something that would be considered forbidden knowledge.

“No problem. I’ll keep working on this. And even if Sheridan doesn’t want to help, I’ll keep looking until I find someone who will.”

I have some ideas, too. You don’t need to make this the only thing you focus on. I’m sure you still want to figure out what Tristan has been up to.

In truth, I’d barely been focusing on that at all since I’d learned he wasalive.

It still hurt too much to think about. Couldn’t he have told me sooner?Five years. I still wanted to know what had happened to him...but the Tristan who had written to me in that book wasn’t what I’d imagined.

I’d imagined that I’d find his body after many years of searching and beg the goddess to restore him to life. Or, if I was truly lucky, maybe he’d just be a prisoner in need of rescue. I’d known the latter case was unlikely, but I’d hoped for it, since it would be so much simpler.

But this Tristan?He sounded confident. Almost pleased with what was happening.

In truth, he sounded like Tristan usually did, and that was the worst part.

I hadn’t even checked the book again to see if he’d sent a reply when I’d asked for proof. I didn’t need to. I knew it was him.

I knew the arrogance, the veiled insults toward people he didn’t respect.

Every word of that letter was Tristan’s signature.

The relief that I’d hoped for along with that confirmation simply wasn’t there.

Was it horrible of me to be unhappy that Tristan was happy? That my fantasy of rescuing him was unnecessary?A part of me was still clinging to the hope that there was something amiss that I’d need to fix. I didn’t have the whole story about the situation, of course.

Maybe he had a good reason for everything he was doing.

But I feared the possibility that he didn’t, and because of that, I’d stopped looking.

That was unacceptable.

“You’re right, I do want to know what happened to Tristan. But you’re right here, and helping you is a higher priority. I’m still going to keep looking for him, but now that we know he’s alive, it’s nothing I need to rush.”

It was a coward’s answer, at least in part. But Sera nodded, seeming to accept it.

We looked back to the fight after that, but my mind was elsewhere.

Tristan... What are you really up to?