CHAPTER II – SPECIAL TRAINING



We found Keras back on the roof. I don’t know when or how he slipped past us to get back up there, but it didn’t really matter.

He was sitting with his legs folded in front of him in an unusual style, his sword laid across his lap. His eyes were closed.

On a hunch, I flicked my attunement on.

The aura around the unsheathed blade of his sword was a silvery hue under my attuned vision, thicker than the flickers of argent I’d seen in his personal shroud during moments of intensity.

No question that it was the same color, though.

I still didn’t have the faintest idea what that meant. There was no level of attunement that corresponded to a silver glow. Even if I extrapolated through the colors of the rainbow beyond green and imagined hypothetical ranks above Emerald or Sapphire, silver wasn’t one of those colors. And this definitely wasn’t just a strange shade of blue; it looked like a haze of metal, complete with a lustrous reflection.

Do foreigners have different aura colors because their magic works differently? Maybe a copper-silver-gold scale or something?...If that follows and he’s only silver, I’d hate to see how powerful gold would be.

While I was distracted with the epiphany that “Tyrant in Gold” could refer to an aura color, Marissa stepped forward.

“M’lord Keras, forgive me for botherin’ ya while yer meditating. Can ye spare a moment?”

Keras opened a single eye. “Well, if you’re being that polite, how can Irefuse?” He closed his eyes again, cracked his neck, and then his sword was sheathed at his side.

With my attunement still active, I could see that a silvery aura lingered in the air where his blade had been, but just for a moment. The weapon itself was no longer emitting an aura now that it was sheathed; instead, I could see a faint blue aura around the scabbard.

Now that’s interesting.

Blue meant Sapphire. That was absurdly potent — we’d been told in class that Sapphire Mages were purely hypothetical — but at least it was something our system could properly identify.

And that was just the scabbard. Why did it need an aura like that? What did it do?Keras reopened his eyes and stood, glancing to Marissa, to me, and back to Marissa. “What can I help you with?”

Marissa bowed deeply. “Please teach me how you fight.”

I raised a hand to rub behind my head. “Uh, me too, I guess?” Keras folded his arms. “Why would you want me to teach you?” That can’t be a serious question.

I frowned. “I can’t speak for Mara, but I’m going to go with ‘because you survived fighting a visage and an Emerald-level elemental is terrified of you.’”

He turned his head away from me, his jaw tightening. That...wasn’t a good response.

Was he angry?Maybe? But, if I was reading his eyes right, it looked more like shame.

Fortunately, Marissa jumped in before Keras had a chance to flatten me for my insolence or anything.

“Uh, m’lord, I was mostly thinking that you had a unique fightin’ style, with shaping your shroud into blades and such, ‘specially when you hit everything around you at once.”

He turned his head to her immediately. “What do you mean by that last part?”

“When ye were stuck in the stone, sir. I couldn’t see it, but I could feelwhen your shroud shifted. And it didn’t feel like burning — it felt like cutting, the same as when you cut through m’lord Hartigan’s shroud. Never seen anyone do something like that with their shroud before, m’lord. Not even our teachers can change their shroud into blades.”

Keras’ eyes narrowed. “No. I doubt anyone else could.” He sighed, looking away. “If that’s what you want to learn, I can’t teach you. You wouldn’t have the right type of...mana, for lack of a better way of putting it.”

“Beggin’ your pardon, m’lord. Maybe I couldn’t do precisely what you do, but...” She pressed her hands together in front of her, closing her eyes for a heartbeat, and then brought them back apart.

Her crimson shroud stretched out four inches in front of her hands, in blade-like points. “It isn’t much, m’lord, but...”

Keras closed the distance between them in a moment, striding forward with fervor. Marissa didn’t retreat.

If I’d been faster, I probably would have stepped between them in alarm, but Keras moved too quickly.

He reached upward — and brushed his hand against the blade-like shroud. I saw silvery sparks when his fingers made contact.

“Remarkable. You managed this after only seeing me once?”

Marissa nodded. “It isn’t anything like your technique, sir. I know that. It’s just a standard shroud, shaped like—”

Keras tilted his head to the side, examining the shroud. “You’re not the first person I’ve seen who can produce a similar blade, but at Carnelian level? Having just seen something like it for the first time?” He paused for a moment, taking a step back and looking straight into her eyes. “It’s beautiful.”

Marissa blushed almost as bright red as her aura.

Keras was turning away a moment later, raising a hand to his lip in thought. He looked totally oblivious to the reaction he’d just triggered. “Yes, I believe I can teach you a bit. I will make no promises of anything specific. I am not much of a teacher.”

While he wasn’t focusing on me, I tried pushing on my own newly-formed Carnelian aura, trying to get it to move into a blade shape. Predictably, it didn’t respond in the slightest.

I’d only had a shroud at all for about a day, and I had no idea how to use it properly.

Marissa had been using a shroud since she’d earned her attunement — she was a Guardian, and shroud manipulation was their specialty. It made sense that she’d be able to pick up on a shroud-based technique more quickly than I could.

Still, I was a little disappointed. I always seemed to be one step behind.

More like five steps, if I compared myself to Derek or Tristan. Those comparisons were even less fair, but that didn’t stop my miserable brain from making them.

But just because I couldn’t learn the same thing that Marissa could as quickly didn’t mean that I had nothing to learn from Keras. “If you’re willing to consider me a student as well, Keras, I’d like to learn more about how your magic works.”

He turned his head toward me and blinked, seemingly just remembering that I was present.

“Oh, Corin. Hrm. I can tell you some theory, I suppose, but I don’t think you’d be able to cast anything. Same problem as I mentioned to Marissa — you don’t have the right types of mana. But if she can come up with a way to do something similar with her own mana, I suppose you might be able to apply some of my theory as well?” He shrugged. “I’ll give it a try. It’s worthwhile if it helps you protect yourself. I can’t be with you all the time.”

I found the implications of that a little demeaning, but I knew what he meant. “I’d appreciate anything you’d be willing to teach.”

Marissa was staring at Keras in wordless...admiration, maybe?...so I continued. “When do you think you might be able to start?”

“Let’s plan to discuss things a bit more tomorrow. Today’s sparring...left me in poor spirits. Talking to you both has helped a bit, but I need some time to myself to clear my mind. I’ll also need to think about what lessons might be useful to you. I’ll see if I can think of anything that would be applicable to both of you, but I may need to train you each separately, at least on some things.”

We both nodded. “Thanks, Keras. I appreciate the help.”

Marissa bowed again, still looking a little awkward. “Aye, uh, thanks...” And then she disappeared back into the house.

Keras frowned. “What a strange girl. Quite talented, but strange.”

I couldn’t help but laugh. “I don’t know if she’s the strange one, Keras.” He looked at me and tilted his head to the side. “What do you mean?”

“When you walk up close to someone and tell them that they’re beautiful— or I suppose, that their sword-hand aura is beautiful,” I rolled my eyes for emphasis, “They might take that as a bit...flirtatious?”

“Oh.” He put a hand to his forehead. “Oh, dear. I, uh, isn’t she a bit young to be thinking of me in that way?”

I pointed a finger at him. “You’re the one who called her beautiful, not me.

You can sort it out.”

He turned his head skyward. “I think I’m just going to leave the matter alone and hope she forgets about it. She probably understands I was just complimenting her martial prowess.”

I was definitely not the world’s leading expert on relationships. Until recently, I had always assumed that my lack of desire for sex meant I’d never be interested in anything romantic at all.

I was just starting to figure out that sexual and romantic interests could be distinct...and then I’d blown up my love interest.

Oops.

So, my qualifications for this kind of thing? Not outstanding. I was D- ranked Quartz in romantic understanding at best. Even then, I could tell that Keras was being hilariously naïve about this.

Maybe it was mean of me, but I was tickled by seeing an unstoppable force of nature acting completely befuddled about how to deal with a teenaged girl.

I chuckled too and headed back toward the house. “Good luck with that.”

***I was still grinning when I pulled up a chair next to the table where Sera and Patrick were playing Valor.

Sera was winning, of course. She had already taken seven of his pieces off the board, and he’d only managed to take three of hers.

Patrick was smiling, though, so at least he was having a good time. Of course, he knew Sera was amazing at Valor.

He also knew she was probably upset about her inability to speak — especially since that directly impacted her ability to use magic.

The more I thought about it, the more I was certain that he’d picked this activity deliberately to let her feel better.

Patrick was an amazing retainer.

He glanced at me as I sat down. “You look pleased about something.”

I chuckled again. “Oh, I think Keras accidentally gave Marissa a bit of a crush, is all.”

Sera turned toward me, raising an eyebrow and using a ‘come hither’ gesture to indicate she wanted more information.

“Nothing scandalous, he just complimented her on being able to shape her aura into a blade after watching him do it once. If you saw her blushing, though—”

Sera narrowed her eyes at me.

I raised my hands defensively. “Don’t worry, I’m not going to tease her about it. Probably.”

She glared harder.

“Okay, definitely. Fine, fine. I can even make sure she knows he’s like... probably super old? I’m honestly not sure.”

“I’d guess about twenty-five,” Patrick offered.

I shrugged. “Could be twenty-five thousand for all we know. I don’t think he’s human.”

Sera nodded vehemently at that. Interesting. Did she pick up on something I hadn’t?As a Summoner, she probably had more insight into how monsters worked.

I’d have to ask her... Oh, right. Well, she could write something down.

Patrick glanced back at Sera. “Alas, a forbidden love. Like my love for you, Sera.”

Sera snorted, then made a vaguely heart-shaped gesture in her hands...and broke it apart.

Patrick laughed and moved his piece on the board, taking one of hers. “That’s for breaking my second-best heart!”

She brought her hand up to her mouth, and I heard the faintest wheeze coming through her lips. Apparently, that was all she could manage for a laugh right now.

That worried me a bit, but at least they both were smiling. I’d worried a bit that they’d lose their friendship after Sera had shot Patrick down about going to the winter ball, but they seemed as close as ever.

Good.

I stood back up. “Good luck to you both. Maybe I’ll play the winner later.”

Patrick groaned. “Don’t wander off too far, then. At this rate, that won’t take very long.”

I patted him on the shoulder. “You can play her best three out of four first.

I’ve got some work to do.”

***I got dressed in my uniform. It wasn’t in the best of shape after all the insanity in the tower, but I didn’t have a full change of clothes here. I’d need to go back to my dorm room for that.

I packed my gear and belted on Selys-Lyann.

The new stick went in my side-pouch, just in case.

I borrowed a glove for my right hand from Derek, since my own had been shredded during the fight with Jin. The metallic part was perfectly intact, I just needed to replace the leather portion.

Then I headed out of the mansion.

My first stop was the Climber’s Court, since it was just a few blocks away.

Lars looked me up and down as soon as I walked into the store. “Goddess above, lad. You look like Mizuchi chewed you up and spat you out.”

I cracked my knuckles. “Oh, no, we managed to avoid the room she was in.”

He blinked. “You saw her?”

I nodded. “Sure did. But that wasn’t even the scary part.”

He leaned back against a nearby table. “Sounds like you finally have a story to tell me for a change.”

I smiled. “You know what? I think I do.” I paused, considering. “But I’m going to have to leave a few parts out. I’m not supposed to be talking about them.”

He waved a hand dismissively. “You don’t have to tell me that, Corin. You just fill those parts in with something more exciting. The story is more entertaining that way.”

“Well,” I pulled up a chair and sat down. “It all started when Visage Katashi asked me to do him a favor...”

***It took me a better part of an hour to tell him a heavily edited version of my tale. I talked mostly about the tower rooms themselves — and completely left out the fighting against Orden, Derek, and Jin.

He listened intently the whole time, hints of concern mixed in with peals of uproarious laughter.

“...And now I’m here, alive, thanks to the magic cloak you loaned me.” Lars folded his arms, nodding with a grim expression. “And your sister,she still can’t speak?”

I took a deep breath, feeling a pang of guilt at my role in that. “Too much scarring. She’s using that regenerating rock I made, but I don’t think it’s helping much.”

“I still can’t believe you enchanted a rock. How’d you do it so quickly? I thought enchanting something on that scale took hours. And isn’t doing something that far above your attunement level a tremendous risk?”

I nodded. “It was a risk, but moving mana felt so easy in the tower. I felt like my attunement was enhanced while I was in there. I’ve never been able to manipulate mana in the air outside, for example.”

“I always felt stronger in the tower, too, but I could never sense the mana like you did.”

I tapped my right hand. “I think this might have had something to do with it, too. Even before Katashi changed it into an attunement, it felt easier to channel mana through my hand. I couldn’t actively draw mana out of the brand, but I think it might have been helping me.”

Lars shook his head. “I still can’t believe you have a gift from Katashi himself. You’ve impressed me, boy.”

“Thanks, Lars.” I smiled. “Couldn’t have done it without your help.” “Aye. So, now you can start working on repaying me.”

I laughed. “I’ll get right on it. To start with, do you have any more powerful healing items for sale? Something stronger than a ring of regeneration?”

“For your sister, I take it? Nothing like that, I’m afraid. I’d see about talking to a Mender. Even if Katashi couldn’t have helped her right then, sometimes Menders can help with long-term treatment to accelerate natural recovery. Aside from that, there’s always taking a trip to Caelford, but I wouldn’t put your hopes on that.”

“Why not?”

“Ferras only takes on projects that interest her. Hundreds, maybe thousands, of people petition her for help with something each year. And that’s if you even get a chance to talk to her — you’d have to find her first.”

I nodded. “I can try other routes first. But I’ll find a way to help Sera, regardless of how much effort it takes.”

“That’s a good spirit to have, lad. Now, can I interest you in something a bit less... divine in cost?”

“Sure, let me take a look around.”

***In the end, I didn’t buy anything right then, but I put a few items on my list for the future.

He didn’t have a jump bell for sale, but he did have a single-use teleportation stone that interested me. That was only fifteen silver sigils, so it was reasonable, but I still didn’t have that much money on me.

I was also interested in getting an enchanted dueling tunic. My shield sigil and phoenix sigil both provided a good layer of defense against magical attacks, but I was extremely vulnerable to standard physical attacks.

If Derek had hit me with a clean sword swing, I’d have been dead. I couldn’t keep taking risks like that.

I considered more old fashioned armor — he had some of that as well — but I wanted something that wouldn’t hinder my mobility significantly.

My preference would have been to get a dueling tunic.

Dueling tunics were essentially just cloth, but they were made from rare and valuable materials that provided a high degree of defense, both against traditional weapons and spells. The two most common types were Ironweave and Steelweave.

Neither was actually metallic; they were simply called that because they were difficult to cut. I’d heard that the silk used to make them was from monstrous spiders.

Some dueling tunics were also enchanted for additional protection, like the one that Orden wore.

I considered just enchanting my own shirt and coat, but I couldn’t manage anything particularly potent yet. The runes for hardening a material were the key to making cloth provide any extra protection, and those required stoneand enhancement mana — two types I couldn’t generate myself.

Getting a dueling tunic would have been somewhat more plausible.

Unfortunately, even the most basic enchanted dueling tunics were about two hundred and fifty silver sigils, more than I’d ever owned. Lars’ most expensive one was seven hundred, and Lars told me he’d heard of ones that sold for thousands.

So, yeah, that was going to take me a while.

Aside from those, I also still wanted a long-distance communication item, but he didn’t have any. I’d have to look into other shops or make one myself.

With my shopping out of the way, I headed to the next place on my agenda— the Divinatory.

I still had a key to the restricted archives. Professor Orden had given it to me when I’d still been working with her. I figured I had at least a few days before someone else remembered that and tried to take it away.

I made it into the restricted section without incident. I wasn’t the only one in there, though.

An elemental creature floated in the center of the room, her shining blue skin contrasting with her current outfit — a tailored suit in the academy’s white.

She was about a foot above a raised platform etched with a complex pattern of runes. It was some sort of combination of a containment device and power source, but I didn’t know exactly how it worked. Either way, it was definitely what kept her in the room.

She was doing stretching exercises when she saw me enter. She gave me a cheerful wave. “Hello again, Corin Cadence. I am Researcher 437-C. I have an answer to your previous question!”

I blinked, not remembering what she was talking about. “Oh? What’s the answer?”

“You may refer to me as a summon.”

Oh, that. She didn’t like being called a summoned monster. Because it had monster in it.

Makes sense. I wouldn’t want to be called a monster, either. Probably would have gone with summoned elemental in her case? Her choice, though.

“Summon it is, then.”

She visibly brightened. And I mean that in the literal sense — she glowed a little brighter, even without my attunement active. I hoped that meant she was happy? “Thank you, Corin Cadence. How may I assist you today?”

I removed the glove on my right hand and showing her my new attunement rune. “Any idea what this is?”

Her eyes widened to comical proportions, then she knelt down and lowered her head. “I am honored to serve in your presence, Arbiter.”

I tilted my head to the side. “Arbiter? Is that the title for this attunement?” Researcher replied without raising her head. “It is.”

I waved a hand upward, uncomfortable with her reaction. “No need to be so formal. You can stand, er, float, back up?”

Researcher raised her head, then stood and floated back above her pedestal as before. “If I would better serve you in that way, Arbiter.”

I’d been raised in a noble household, so I understood the kind of behavior she was demonstrating, but it still felt wrong. Unearned. “Can you explain to me what this attunement does, and why you’re reacting the way that you are?”

“Certainly, Arbiter. Your attunement is only granted to one who has successfully completed a diplomatic task for one of the visages. Typically, it involves assisting in a political matter between visages and human cultures. Arbiters have demonstrated that they can be trusted with delicate matters, and thus, they are often employed by visages for additional assignments.”

Researcher paused, gesturing to herself with both hands. “As a spire elemental, I am bound to assist an Arbiter in any way possible, since their tasks are often of great importance to the visages.”

Well, that’s good and bad. It means I might be able to ask other elementals for help, but it also means Katashi or other visages might come calling for more help in the future. And I certainly can’t say “no” to one of their requests.

I considered that for a moment, raising a hand to my chin. I didn’t scratch it. I was trying to cut back on that habit. “Okay, but you’re a summoned elemental, right? What happens if I ask you to do something that conflicts with your Summoner’s instructions?”

“I cannot directly go against my Summoner’s commands, even at an Arbiter’s request.” She grinned, showing a hint of mischief glimmering in her eyes. “But...if it wasn’t directly against my Summoner’s orders...”

Huh, she’s got a mischievous streak. Wouldn’t have guessed that.

“Got it.” I smiled in return. “I’ll keep that in mind, thank you. Do you know exactly what I can do with this? I mean, like, what abilities does the attunement confer?”

She nodded once. “Ah, yes. The Arbiter attunement specializes in transferring mana into others. Its primary mana generation type is transference. Its secondary type is life.”

I blinked. “Wait, transferring mana into others? Isn’t that extremely dangerous?”

“Humans typically are unable to transfer mana into other humans because of impurities. The Arbiter attunement purifies mana that is sent through that specific attunement, allowing for safe transfer into other humans. This is its core function. It can be used to both restore lost mana and to temporarily increase the power of an ally over their normal maximum limits.”

My eyes widened as I considered the possibilities this created. “Temporarily? Is there any permanent benefit to using the attunement onsomeone?”

She held up two fingers in a sign for “little”. “A slight one. Anything that pushes an attuned’s mana beyond their capacity has the potential to increase that capacity permanently — but usually just a bit, and doing it too frequently or with too high of a volume of mana all at once can cause damage. For example, an Emerald-level attuned pushing as much mana as possible into a Quartz-level attuned could potentially cause them permanent harm.”

I processed that.

There was a lot of potential in this new attunement.

Could I use the purification function as a way to create enhancement elixirs without distilling them?Or maybe just transfer enough energy into someone to permanently increase their power a little bit, gradually over time?Could I combine this with my other attunement to put enchantments on people?...Maybe that’s how artificial attunements are made?I had some more direct questions to ask, too.

“Could I use this on myself to enhance my Enchanter attunement?”

Researcher frowned at that. “It isn’t meant to be used like that...but I suppose it might work? I haven’t heard of any cases of it being used in that way, but the restricted attunements are obscure, even by my standards. I don’t have a lot of data to work with.”

I’d have to save that as a last resort, then. I would have been more tempted if my other attunement had a direct combat application, but trying to enhance my own Enchanter attunement was a great deal of risk for the potential of a minimal benefit.

I was getting a little bit better about using my mental mana without the watch, but the idea of flooding my brain with enough mana that it could potentially cause scars was...

I shuddered a little bit just thinking about it, quickly changing the trajectory of my thoughts to something more palatable.

“If I gave someone enough mana to push them over the threshold to the next attunement level, would their attunement’s level increase?”

Researcher nodded. “That is a standard way of using the attunement, however, it would be temporary. They would gain the benefits of the higher attunement level, but only until that additional mana is used, after which the attunement would most likely revert to its previous state.”

“Most likely?”

“As I noted previously, there is a small permanent benefit from receiving an infusion of mana. It’s possible that your ability could be used as the catalyst for a permanent change, but only if they were already at the cusp of reaching the next attunement level on their own.”

“What kind of scale of permanent benefit are we talking about?”

She made a ‘hmm’ noise. “I would expect it to translate to being able to stretch the person’s capacity to about two percent higher than their previous maximum, provided you supplied them with mana equal to their current maximum safe value. I would never give someone more extra mana than their current maximum value, nor would I advise using this on the same person more than once per week.”

That was interesting, particularly because it implied that whatever had happened to Sera when she drank the potion I’d given her wasn’t the same as transferring mana into her directly. She’d checked in the morning and her mark still hadn’t returned to its previous appearance, in spite of her maximum mana apparently decreasing, rather than increasing.

It was possible that her attunement would have reverted if not for the scarring, but I suspected something else was at work. I hadn’t just been giving her pure mana, after all — that potion was some sort of catalyst for attunements.

I’d procrastinated long enough on analyzing the potion. I planned to do that within the next few days.

Beyond that, knowing some of the safety limits of my attunement was extremely useful. I’d need to know everyone’s safe mana levels, then I could transfer an equal amount into them...provided I had enough mana to do that. Marissa already had more mana than I did, but maybe I could use this as a tool to help Patrick catch up to us. And if I only needed to infuse him once a week, I could safely do the same thing for a few other people, too.

“Can I give people mana more than once per week if it’s in smaller amounts?”

“The more important part is that you don’t want them to exceed their maximum more than once per week. You can safely recharge their mana as many times as you need to.”

Good to know. That’s probably enough on that subject for now.

I took out a drawing of Sera’s new attunement and showed it to the researcher. “Have you ever seen a rune like this before?”

“How fascinating.” The researcher stared at the image. “This is unfamiliar to me. I can check with the central archive, but that will take some time.”

“Central archive?”

The elemental turned her head toward the east...toward the spire, maybe? “My true self remains there, alongside many others of my kind. We gather,maintain, catalogue, and distribute data. Tenjin has kindly allowed this variant of me to remain here.”

Well, that means this elemental isn’t some kind of violation of divine laws, at least. That’s good — I don’t want to deal with any more visage-related complications right now. I have enough of them.

“What are the odds that mark is a restricted attunement?”

Researcher shook her head. “It’s not. I’d have recognized it if it was.” “What about an ascended attunement?”

Her eyes widened slightly. “That’s...possible, I suppose. I’ve never actually seen one.”

That was interesting. “Do you know how those are obtained, or how they work?”

“No, but I’d like to! If you find out anything about them, I’d love to hear it.”

I nodded. “Okay, another question. If someone had lost the ability to use their attunement properly due to scarring, could I use this transfer ability from my new attunement to help them?”

Researcher shook her head sadly. “It would be unlikely to have any benefit. Mana scars inhibit the proper passage of mana through the body. Attempting to flood a scarred area with mana might do more harm than good.”

Maybe I could get Sera a second attunement, then, and help her get stronger at using that?No, that’s working around the problem. I’ll do that if I have to, but I’d rather get her voice back.

“Do you know any means of healing mana scars?”

“Not easy ones. In Caelford, they are performing research on full organ replacements, with some signs of success. Our own research has been focused on restoring the body to a previous state, using a combination of local Menders and other body-related attuned from other nations. There have been some successes with both approaches, but each has significant risks.”

Researcher waved a hand toward the section of the library on her left. “The most reliable approach, unfortunately, remains the most difficult. In row 4-D, you can find a section called ‘Goddess-Touched Locales’. We currently have three books covering a location called Vanreach Peak. In this location, raremedicinal herbs can sometimes be found during the winter season. These herbs serve as the foundation for the Vanreach Elixir, which is reported to be an effective treatment for virtually any physical injury, including mana scarring.”

I perked up at that. “How does this elixir work?”

“The herb itself is the most powerful known alchemical component for healing purposes. Elixirs created using the herbs, which are known as Goddess’ Tears, trigger a potent regeneration effect on the body that can repair long-term damage on the body. Some claim the elixir is even potent enough to reverse the effects of aging.”

That sounded pretty amazing. “If this herb is so potent, why aren’t we growing it on farms or in laboratories?”

“Attempts have been made, of course.” Researcher smiled. “But it isn’t a naturally occurring herb — and all attempts to breed it have failed. We have a poor understanding of the conditions under which it grows. At one point, the Valian government placed the entire mountain under observation for the winter. No herbs were found that entire season. According to local legends, the herbs only grow when the goddess visits the mountain to mourn a friend. Thus the name.”

I nodded at that. “And I presume that, given the value of the herbs, there’s a great deal of competition for them?”

“Oh, yes. And the Vanreach Mountains are infested with monsters.”

Of course they are. Everywhere interesting seems to be.

“I’ll take a look at the books when I get a chance, thank you.” “It is my honor to be of service, Arbiter.”

I twisted my lips in response to her words. “You don’t need to be so formal. I’m not that important.”

Researcher put a hand over her chest and closed her eyes. “Oh, thank the goddess. It was so hard doing that. It’s been ages since I’ve had to be all... ‘It is my honor to serve you’ and such.”

I laughed. “I’ve never been much for titles and formalities.”

“That’s a relief. Now, what else do you need?” She folded her hands in front of her, rolling back and forth on her heels with obvious energy.

“I think that’s most of it for today, actually. Let me think for a minute.” What else did I need to know?A whole lot of things, actually.

But what could she help me with immediately?Probably more questions related to my new attunement? Or maybe something about the Whispers, that organization that Tristan supposedly belonged to?Maybe not that last part. Asking her about the Whispers could be suspicious. She’s being extremely helpful, but I’m not her Summoner, and I still don’t know who her Summoner is. She wouldn’t tell me last time...

...Meaning that might be a good question.

“Do I have sufficient authority now for you to tell me who summoned you?”

She shook her head. “Nope! That’s one of the things I’ve been expressly ordered not to share.”

I considered that. “If I asked you the name of a Summoner, could you tell me if they’re not the one you’re contracted with?“I suppose I could answer that.”

Who seems likely? Hrm. “Is it Elora Theas?” “Not her!”

I didn’t actually know that many other Summoners. I listed a few more names of students, but none of them came up. “Professor Orden, maybe?” She told me she wasn’t a Summoner, but she’d deceived me about plenty of other things, and I knew she worked in here.

“Nope!”

I nodded absently. “Okay...Do you have a list of all Summoners working at the university?”

“Not in a single location. You could look at the general faculty lists and cross-reference them with the individual profiles for each faculty member, though.”

I waved a hand dismissively. “Too much work. It’s not that important.” “If you say so!”

I rubbed my chin. “I think that’s all I have to ask for the moment, but I’m sure I’ll be back here soon. Thanks for all the help.”

“It’s been my pleasure, Arbiter.” She bowed at the waist. “I had fun, too!You should come by more often.”

It struck me that she sounded lonely — and that made sense, given that she was standing around, sentient and conscious, doing...virtually nothing all day? Maybe she was scanning through the books somehow. I didn’t really know.

“I’ll try to do that.”

I meant it, both for her sake and mine.

I went and grabbed the books about the Vanreach Mountains she’d told me about, packed them in my backpack, and headed out.

It was time to risk visiting my dorm.

***I strongly considered going to Jin’s room first. It was just above mine.

It would have been easy to check on him, just to see if he was there. To see if he was even alive.

But what would I say?Oh, hey, Jin. How’s that shrapnel in your chest doing?My hands had balled into fists without my conscious knowledge. No, I wasn’t ready to look for Jin just yet.

I told myself it was because Sera was my priority right now, but I was aware I was deflecting. That was fine, though. The lie was sweeter than the truth, but the truth was sufficient reason to stay away in itself.

We’d nearly killed each other. The next time I saw him, I knew he might try to finish what he’d started.

I doubted it, but that doubt itched at the back of my mind, and I knew it would continue to until I found a way to expunge it. That was, like dealing with any fear, a substantial task: and one I wasn’t particularly adept at.

I made it to my own door without being ambushed by assassins.

I admit it was kind of a let-down. I would have felt vindicated if there had been assassins, and maybe it would have distracted me from thinking about Jin.

Probably not. In retrospect, assassins reminded me of the first time he’d saved me.

Resh.

Okay, clearing mind, focusing on work.

I opened my door.

I didn’t have a perfect memory, and it had been a while since I’d been back to my room, but I was pretty certain it was not how I’d left it.

It didn’t look like someone had sacked the room. But there were little things that were out of place.

The books on my desk were on the left side, not the upper right hand corner where I usually put them.

My clothes were folded too well. Honestly, I was awful at folding.

I activated my attunement, scanning the area for magic. I found something faint, glowing subtly under the carpet.

I couldn’t ignore that. I’d just have pay for the damages. I cut away a square of the carpet, finding a set of runes that I most certainly hadn’t put there.

Let’s see...

That’s very similar to the activation rune on my return bell, but with a higher level of sensitivity. Betting it’s for detecting if anyone steps on the area above.

That’s the function rune. It has something having to do with air mana, and it’s tied to the next rune...

Which is something that stores a specific sound.

That’s a targeting rune for setting a destination for a spell effect.

The rest of them are just runes for capacity and recharging the enchantments automatically.

After a moment of consideration, I determined they were a simple signaling enchantment. Something that activated another set of enchantments elsewhere when it detected someone present in the area.

From the level of the range rune, the targeted location could be anywhere in the city. And, unfortunately, I didn’t have any way of tracing where it was going.

Not immediately, at least.

I was reasonably confident that Jin didn’t have a high level Enchanter available, so it probably wasn’t him.

I patched up the carpet, took my school books, and left.

I abandoned the clothes. I didn’t trust that they didn’t have kind of detection enchantments built into them. They weren’t glowing, so it wasn’t likely, but I wasn’t going to take the risk.

School books wouldn’t have the enchantment capacity to handle any serious enchantments. Trials of Judgment had to be made of some kind of special material to be able to handle the magic it was capable of, and I was reasonably confident these books were the same ones I’d left behind. I checked each book with my attunement before packing it away, though, just to be safe.

I also took my few other enchanting supplies: an extra etching rod, clamps for holding the object steady, pens, parchment, and that sort of thing.

After a bit of consideration, I changed my mind about the etching rod and left that one behind. Any enchanted item had a risk of being modified. While I didn’t see any new runes on the rod, the stick that Derek had given me proved that there were ways of hiding enchantments.

After that, I locked my room and headed back to Derek’s place. I dropped my stuff off there.

“Someone broke into my dorm,” I explained to the others. “Bring me with you if you plan to go back to your own rooms. I’ll check for enchantments.”

Derek looked concerned when he heard the news. “I’ll double-check the security of the mansion. We’re well-protected here, but I’ll take some extra precautions.”

I was glad for that. I also spent a bit of time checking the mansion for anything suspicious myself.

Each room had a standardized set of runes etched into a wall. In a couple specific places, like Derek’s room, there were redundancies for extra protection.

That’s a Citrine-level anti-Divination rune. A pretty standard precaution, and a powerful one.

Hm, I think that’s a teleportation rune linked to a shielding rune.

That would work a little differently from the anti-teleportation runes I use,since it doesn’t block teleportation from being used inside the manor. It just prevents teleportation spells that originate from outside the house from getting in. That makes a lot of sense, since it still allows people inside to escape via teleportation, but it prevents attackers from being able to teleport straight in.

I’ll write this combination down. Might need to use it myself eventually.

This last one is a reinforcement rune for protecting the walls. Kind of easy to forget these are here, since Keras and Derek always end up wrecking the rooftop anyway.

After that, there were sets of capacity and recharge runes for each of the mana types. Nothing out of the ordinary.

All of those enchantments seemed like reasonable precautions, and I didn’t find any rooms that had any extra runes that were out of place.

Considering how powerful some of those enchantments were, as well as the sheer number of them, Derek must have spent a fortune on defending his home. I’d sleep a little easier knowing that.

Who could have broken into my room?The most likely option was someone connected to Orden and the Whispers. If that was the case, I didn’t think I’d be able to track them.

I looked up the set of runes I’d found on the floor and formulated a plan. I couldn’t act on it immediately, but I had some ideas.

I considered hiring a more powerful Enchanter or Diviner to look into it on my behalf, but I couldn’t afford it.

I also thought about reporting the incident to the school, but after what had happened to Orden, I didn’t really trust the academy’s administrators.

Moreover, I didn’t really want to bring anyone else into this whole mess if I could avoid it.

For the moment, I’d just have to watch my back while I looked into other things.

The next major item on my agenda was to visit Professor Vellum. She was the closest thing I had to an Enchanting mentor, as eccentric as she was, and I needed her advice. But first, it was finally time to go back to class.

