CHAPTER I – WELL, THAT WAS UNEXPECTED



I stared blankly at the open book in front of me, rereading the final lines.

And I’ll be especially interested in seeing your next move, little brother. Survive, and you’ll soon see mine.

-Tristan CadenceI’d spent the last five years of my life wondering about Tristan’s fate. Had he somehow survived failing the tests? If he had died, could I bargain with the goddess to resurrect him if I reached the top of the tower?I had my answer now.

Tristan not only survived, he spent the last five years practicing how to sound like the villain from a stage play.

I allowed myself a weak chuckle. But I didn’t feel like my joke was particularly funny.

The situation didn’t feel funny, either. Nor did it feel as joyous as it should have. This wasn’t how our reunion was supposed to happen.

I felt sick.

I let my disbelief influence me for a moment while I wrote a reply.

Dear Voice of the Tower,If you are Tristan Cadence, I would appreciate some proof.

-CorinThere was no immediate reply, just as I’d expected. I wasn’t even sure the book was capable of sending me additional messages while I was in Derek Hartigan’s manor. I knew the place was supposed to be heavily warded. I didn’t know enough about the specific runes to know if they would block whatever form of enchantment made this book function.

I frowned as I contemplated that. How does this book work?I hadn’t seen obvious runes within it like on traditional enchanted items. It did glow while I looked at it with my attunement active, however.

I spent a moment searching the book using my attunement, realizing that the part that glowed the most intensely was the inside of the spine, where the pages were attached.

That implied that the runes were underneath the paper. If that was true, I’d have to remove the pages in order to see the runes. Not a bad way of concealing them, since taking out the paper could potentially render the book’s magic inert.

Maybe I could find a Diviner with a spell for seeing through material? That would probably work, but then I’d have to be willing to show the book to someone else...

Or I could make an item with that function. That’d be better, both due to my distrust for others and because I could see an item with that spell being useful for other applications.

I’d succeeded at distracting myself briefly with that line of thought, but Tristan’s declaration snapped me out of my reverie when the moment of interest wore off.

I’d asked the book for proof, but I didn’t need much of it. Katashi had already told me directly that Tristan had been involved with the disappearance of Visage Tenjin. The writing in the book was consistent with that.

Resh.

What do I do?If Tristan really was one of the people organizing this, was I willing to work against him?He hadn’t been bothered that we’d successfully defeated Orden and turned her over to Katashi, so he clearly had his own angle on this affair. What was it?Was he the one currently overseeing the production of artificial attuned?Or perhaps the one watching over the visage they held as a prisoner?Both were possible. Both would put him in immediate danger now that Katashi knew that he was involved.

Vera had described a tall, Emerald-level swordsman who had attacked Visage Tenjin directly. I’d assumed that was Derek, but my brother was the same age and a similar build. Now that I knew Derek wasn’t connected to this whole mess, it was possible that Tristan had been the attacker.

How can I look into this further?Tristan had clearly been observing me through the book, as well as sending messages to manipulate me into the course of action he wanted me to take. I’d learned that he was a Whisper — one of the secret servants of the visages — and that meant he had the necessary trust to make changes to the tower itself.

That was presumably how he’d managed to place the book somewhere I would find it. It was also probably how he made sure I had a key to open a cell door, and why the cell doors had locks that were meant to be opened by someone taking the test.

The dead teenager I’d found in front of the bars implied that it was possible I hadn’t been Tristan’s first choice.

I didn’t know how deep his abilities to influence the tower went. Was he able to shift the layout of the rooms themselves to make sure I followed a path to that prison?I had no idea.

One thing I would have to learn more about was how the Whispers worked and their level of influence. That might help me narrow down whether or not Tristan was currently inside the spire, and if so, how much freedom he had to move around and confound any search.

Another thing I’d have to look into was how the book worked. If Tristan had been using it to spy on me, could I find a way to reverse that process? Was he just writing in a similar book of his own to send me messages, or did he have another method of sending writing to it? How was he viewing me from a distance?If I could view Tristan from a distance, I’d gain a major advantage in finding him and learning what he was truly up to.

Third, I’d need to look into what Elora Theas was up to. How deeply involved had she been?Fourth, I’d seen my mother working with Elora Theas in the city council chamber when I’d viewed the contents of a memory crystal. It was the first I’d seen of my mother in years, and I’d discovered that she’d somehow managed to secure an important government position.

Did that imply that mother was working with Elora on this whole affair? Did that further imply that my mother was aware of Tristan’s situation and had chosen not to tell me?If so, she had a great deal to answer for.

That last line of thought made me realize that I was neglecting something important while I was fixating on solving this newly-arisen puzzle.

I’d been terrible about sharing what I knew with my family.

Telling my mother about this was questionable; it would be a sign of trust, and if she wasn’t involved, I’d be doing her a great kindness.

But if she was involved, telling her I knew about Tristan was playing my hand openly.

...Then again, if she was working directly with Tristan, he could just tell her that himself.

So, I’d tell my mother. Maybe not immediately; it’d be safer to do it in person.

I wrote her a quick letter, one that I’d hand off to a courier in the morning after I’d had a chance to acquire a seal for it.

Dear Mother,I didn’t heed your warnings, as I’m sure you expected. Fortunately, I am alive and relatively intact.

I have a considerable amount of information that I believe you would be interested in. In specific, I am aware of Keras Selyrian’s current whereabouts. I also have conclusive evidence that he was not involved in Visage Tenjin’s current situation.

Due to the sensitive nature of this information, I would like to share it with you in person in an area that is warded against observation. I understand that this letter may take some time to reach you, and that you have other responsibilities, but I would like to meet at your earliest convenience.

I hope you are well.

-CorinShe’d last told me that she had urgent business in Dalenos. That was months ago, however, and I hoped she was back from her journey. If I didn’t receive a reply within a week or so, I’d see if I could find a Wayfarer who could send her a message with magic. I wanted to avoid that route for now because it would require giving that Wayfarer all of the information in the letter, which wasn’t a great idea.

For the moment, though, I had other family members to attend to.

My father? Given how he’d treated me, I didn’t feel the world’s strongest urge to be kind to him.

But I couldn’t justify hiding this knowledge forever just because of how he’d treated me.

I planned to tell him as soon as I could safely travel to his estate and figure out what I wanted to say. That would probably be sometime after I finished my first year of classes.

I had another family member that was closer, though, and one who deserved answers as much as I did.

I left my room, taking the book with me, and knocked softly on the door to the guest bedroom where Sera was staying. Fortunately, the Hartigan manor was large enough that she had a room to herself.

“It’s Corin,” I added after a moment.

I heard some shuffling within the room. About thirty seconds passed before she opened the door, her eyes narrowed and her hair hilariously askew. She’d been sleeping.

Honestly, seeing her like that reminded me of how similar we looked when she hadn’t gone through her morning hair-wrestling and general beautification rituals. Her hair was a little longer than mine, but it was the same black with a bit of wave to it, and we had a similar athletic sort of build. Neither of us was as skinny as Marissa, but we were both in good shape.

I grinned at her disheveled appearance. “Can I come in?”

She waved me inside and closed the door behind us. She went to sit on her bed.

I pulled over a chair from the nearby writing desk. “We need to talk.”

She tilted her head to the side, narrowed her eyes, and pointed at herthroat.

I coughed in apology. It was too easy to forget that she couldn’t talk. She still hadn’t recovered from the damage she’d sustained drinking the potion I’d given her in the tower.

I’ll have to figure out a way to help her. It’s my fault she’s in this bad of shape.

I shifted the book to show it to her. “Poor choice of words. I mean I need to tell you something? Or, really, to show you something.”

I handed the book to her. She raised an eyebrow. “Look at the last few pages that have writing.”

She nodded, flipping through the pages until she reached the end, then going back a bit. I waited patiently while she read.

Her eyes visibly widened when she read the part I’d expected, then she slammed the book shut and handed it back to me.

“Yeah, I’m...”

She raised a hand to quiet me, then moved over to the writing desk and retrieved a pencil and paper. We were lucky that Derek had a pencil and an eraser available; pens were far more common in Valia.

She scribbled a quick message on the paper. “What are the odds that it’sreally Tristan?”

I winced. “Unfortunately, rather high. Right before we left the tower, Katashi said something about Tristan being involved with Tenjin’s disappearance. I found that book right when I walked into the tower for my Judgment, and I’ve seen evidence that it can be used as a tracking device.”

I hesitated for a moment before continuing. It was difficult to admit my conclusions out loud. “I think Tristan has been keeping an eye on me and manipulating me this entire time.”

Her next reply was simply writing, “Resh.” I sighed in assent. “Yeah.”

There was a part of me that was relieved that she didn’t react with joy at hearing that Tristan was alive. On some level, I’d felt like I was fundamentally broken for failing to be happy about the revelation. I was supposed to be overjoyed that he was alive, wasn’t I?Sera scratched another message on the page. “Don’t do anything drastic.

We’ll figure this out.”

I gave her my best effort at a smile in response. It wasn’t a very good one, a half-smile at best, but I tried. “Thanks.”

She put a hand on mine. I tensed at the physical contact, but I didn’t pull away. Sera was trying to comfort me, and maybe she needed a bit of comfort herself.

We hadn’t really talked about how Tristan’s disappearance had affected her in any depth. We were all close as children, but the little bit that she’d told me recently gave me the impression he wasn’t always nice to her.

A part of me wanted to ask her about it, but I wasn’t sure I was ready for the answer. I didn’t think I could handle my opinion of Tristan sinking any further.

I’d idolized him for too long.

I’d fought so hard to try to find a way to bring him back home. To try to fix the bonds that had broken in his absence.

Was that all just childish idealism?I sighed, closing my eyes. “Thanks, Sera. You’re right. We’ll get this sorted out together.”

I gave her a quick hug, the most contact I could tolerate. She relaxed a little, seeming grateful for the contact.

We were very different in that regard.

Then I took the book and headed back to my room to try to rid my doubts. That, of course, only made me think about them even more.

***A few hours later, I heard a knock at my door. Before I could respond, a voice said, “It’s Patrick! Can I come in?”

I groaned and closed my book. “Yeah, sure.”

Patrick opened the door and stepped in, closing the door behind him. He gave me a conspiratorial “whisper” which was just about as loud as his normal voice. “I heard the news about Tristan! You must be so excited.”

My initial reaction was a combination of horror and frustration that Sera had told himHow could she be the one to break the news to others? Tristan was mybrother, after all, not her— Oh, right.

Even once I’d processed the fact that she probably did have an equal claim to any information about Tristan, I still felt irritated.

I would have waited longer.

Taken some time to verify his identity, figure out a plan.

She could have at least asked me before telling anyone else.

And then it occurred to me that I’d more or less done the same thing to her when I’d made Patrick my retainer without even bothering to consult her about it.

I was still irritated, even knowing that. But at least I knew I was being unfair.

“I’m not sure it’s him,” I replied instinctively.

Patrick nodded, grabbing a chair and sitting down. “Sure, but it sounds like it is! And why would someone bother going to all the trouble to pretend to be your brother? It’s not like either of you is that important.”

I don’t think Patrick realized how insulting that last part sounded.

But I ignored that, processing the answer. “It could be that whoever I’ve been communicating with has figured out who I am and done research to figure out the easiest way to manipulate me.”

“Communicating?” Patrick frowned. “I thought you just heard about Tristan from Katashi.”

I realized I’d made a misstep by assuming Sera had told Patrick everything. “I have a magical item that sends and receives messages from someone in the spire. I found it in my Judgment. The person I’m talking to claims to be Tristan.”

“Wow.” Patrick blinked. “You must be thrilled. I’ve never heard anything about something like that happening before.”

“Yeah. That’s part of why I’m skeptical. It seems too good to be true.”

Patrick leaned closer to me, looking concerned. “Are you feeling okay? I thought you’d be ecstatic, but you look awful. I mean, worse than usual.”

I waved a hand dismissively, trying not to feel insulted. “My injuries are healing fine. My back was pretty beaten up, but—”

“That’s not what I mean, Corin. You look upset.”

I sighed. “I don’t know. I... This is what I wanted, isn’t it?”

Patrick nodded. “Since the moment he disappeared. You never gave up on him. You always believed he was alive, somewhere.”

I shook my head. “I wanted to believe that when he vanished, but the reality sunk in pretty quickly thereafter. I didn’t believe there was a high chance he’d survived. There are a few stories of people escaping the spire years later, like Meredith Hawkins, but...”

“Yeah, that was probably just a con artist with the Shapeshifter attunement. And there was that one you always talked about with Johannes Edington, but he’d stayed in the spire deliberately to try to form long-lasting memories of a Judgment. But he’d told people he was going to do that in advance and packed supplies for it, and even he came out after a couple months.”

I sighed. “Exactly. So, I’d more or less assumed he was probably dead, or otherwise trapped in the spire. I still figured I could fix it, though. Or, rather, the goddess could fix it if I actually made it to the top of the spire. I’ve never understood why more people don’t try to climb the spire for that kind of boon.”

“I think most people find it easier to accept death and move on then to spend their entire lives working toward a goal they might never accomplish. And I think a part of it is that you’re not, uh, quite as devout as most people, Corin.”

I raised an eyebrow. “What do you mean?”

“Well, don’t take this the wrong way, but you always tried to avoid saying the prayers in school when we were younger. I get the impression you don’t have a lot of faith in the goddess.”

I shrugged. “I believe she exists. I just don’t particularly believe in praying to someone who sets up a system that kills thousands of teenagers every year.”

Patrick visibly winced. “That’s...not really fair. She’s testing people for the qualities that are—”

I waved a hand. “I’ve read the scriptures, Patrick. I know the doctrine. ‘The goddess blesses those who demonstrate the courage to risk themselves, the strength to defend others, and the insight to know their own weaknesses.’ I’d think that would encourage more people to take the risks to try to climb the spire and resurrect someone they care about, if anything.”

“That’s just the thing, Corin. You see people dying in the spire as a tragedy...and it is, in a way. But dying also sends their spirits to the goddess’ kingdom, where they will be rewarded, and in time, reborn.”

Ah. That.

I’d never seen that as anything other than an empty platitude for people mourning the dead. A way for people to feel a little less horrible about the awfulness of losing someone they cared about.

But if people were taking it literally, that did go a long way toward explaining why most people weren’t quite as obsessed with bringing back their deceased family members as I was.

Was there something wrong with me?It wasn’t that I didn’t believe that the goddess existed. I’d seen the spires, earned an attunement, and even met one of her visages in person.

I just couldn’t square the idea of the same entity that makes spires with murderous traps and monsters also being benevolent enough to care for the spirits of the dead in some kind of utopian afterlife.

If Selys was capable of making a utopian kingdom at all, why not extend that to all of us?I’d read the scriptures for their answers, of course. The idea of adversity testing our resolve and building us into better people. Some verses even indicated that the trials that one underwent in life would help to dictate the specific roles of spirits in the goddess’ kingdom, or even in subsequent lives.

But none of that addressed the inherent unfairness of the mortal world. A goddess with Selys’ obvious power could be doing more.

I remember reading in the scriptures about the early days when the goddess wrought miracles. Turned rivers aside and made whole lands fertile. She walked the lands in person, healing the injured and curing the diseased.

Then she raised the spires, and the miracles stopped. She'd done her good deeds and turned to playing games with human lives.

Even if the spires had some sort of value for strengthening the spirit, I sincerely doubted that there was any spiritual benefit for the children who died from famine or disease.

If there was any truth to the legends of her miracles, she had the power to stop those tragedies from occurring.

From that, I concluded that she either had chosen to stop helping us, or thatshe’d never truly had that power at all.

The most charitable interpretation I could devise was that she’d used up some of her power making the spires. That seemed like a good deal of effort, even for a deity.

If the spires had purely served as a way to give out magic to humanity, I might have even called that a benevolent decision. But with tens of thousands of people that entered the spire disappearing each year, I had a hard time believing yet.

And even if the spires were purely meant to help us... Maybe she could have set up a way to give those of us who’d lost someone some real closure.

There were common answers for all that, too. That it was up to humanity to solve our own problems. To prove ourselves and grow as a species.

It had always come across to me like a king telling a pauper that he just needed to try harder.

In other words, complete nonsense. “Corin? You okay?”

I’d gotten distracted with my own introspection again. “Sorry. I’m just...processing.”

“I understand. It has to be a lot to take in. But you were right this whole time, Corin. Your brother is out there. You should feel vindicated by that.”

I didn’t like other people telling me how I should feel, but I knew Patrick was only trying to cheer me up, and I was grateful for that. I took a breath. “It’s...he’s not like what I expected.”

Patrick gave me a sympathetic look. “Of course he’s changed. It’s been five years, and who knows what he’s been through in there?”

“Yeah. I just... I guess I wasn’t expecting things to go this way. I think I’ll be okay, I just need to adjust my plans a bit.” My words sounded hollow, but I tried to believe them.

“Okay, good. Just let me know if you need anything, okay? If you need to rescue Tristan from the spire, I’ll be glad to help!”

I gave a little laugh at that. “Thanks, Patrick.” I paused for a minute, then added, “You’re a good friend. I don’t deserve you.”

Patrick scoffed. “That’s silly. You always used to stick up for me when we were little. Friends help each other out. That’s what we’re here for.”

“Thanks.” I took a breath. “I think I need a little time to myself, if you don’t mind.”

“Of course. If you need me, though, you know where to find me.” I nodded and waved. Patrick left the room.

The conversation should have helped. It was nice to know that Patrick was there to help me if I needed it.

But he was right — I wasn’t happy about what I’d learned about Tristan.

It wasn’t just that things hadn’t gone the way I’d expected, although I had to admit that was a part of it.

It was the sinking feeling that the person I’d been talking to was Tristan, but that he was so far from the brother I’d lost that I wouldn’t recognize him.

It was the nagging worry that whatever Tristan had become after five years away was not the type of person that I could trust.

And, perhaps, that he might even end up being my enemy.

Questions, frustrations, and scenarios wouldn’t stop running through my mind. Morning light was pouring in my window before I finally slept.

*** I woke to the sound of clashing steel.

I literally rolled out of my bed, drawing Selys-Lyann in a single motion.

If Orden had seen that the first time she’d tested me with that midnight ambush, she might have been impressed.

There were no intruders in my room. The sound of metal was coming from above me.

I rushed out the door still wearing my night clothes. I had my phoenix sigil pinned to my pants, so I wasn’t completely defenseless if we were under attack.

I found a stairwell leading up, terminating at a hatch. The sounds of clashing metal were closer now. I opened it cautiously, keeping my sword in my off-hand.

A blur of motion crossed over the open hatch, too fast for me to follow. I stepped back instinctively, taking a parrying posture, but nothing followed me down.

A glance told me that the hatch led up to the rooftop, which was a flatdesign of solid stone. This mansion was built less like a standard house and more like a small fortress.

I pulled myself up onto the rooftop, taking a defensive pose.

A black-garbed man flashed past me, swinging his sword in a broad arc. A shockwave ripped out of his blade, arcing toward his opponent. As he twitched his left hand a moment later, the shockwave split apart into six separate projectiles.

On the opposite side of the roof, Derek calmly swiveled on his heel, cutting apart the projectiles with a sword in either hand. He had a smirk on his face. “That the best you can do?”

His attacker, Keras Selyrian, raised a hand to his chin. “No, but I’m not sure if you could handle anything more. After all, you’re unarmed.”

Derek’s twin swords — ordinary training swords, not magical ones — fell to pieces.

To my left side, I heard Patrick and Marissa laugh. They were sitting with plates on their laps and a bottle of liquid between them.

Sera was standing a few feet away, watching the exchange with folded arms, but her eyes were curious.

Patrick turned to me almost immediately. “Hey, you’re awake! Come sit, they’re just getting started.”

I groaned as I realized what I was witnessing.

Yesterday, Keras had made a remark about taking Derek up to the roof. Apparently, that hadn’t been a joke.

I was half-tempted to just go back downstairs and pull a pillow over my eyes, but my stomach grumbled at the sight of the plates in front of Patrick and Marissa. “...Is there extra food?”

Patrick waved me over. “I’ll share and we can get more downstairs later.” He patted the rooftop next to him. “C’mon.”

Keras and Derek paused their exchange to allow me to get close enough to sit down next to Patrick. I hadn’t brought the scabbard for Selys-Lyann, so I just put it on the ground next to me and kept an eye on it to make sure no one stepped on it.

Patrick offered me an apple, and Marissa handed me a block of cheese. I nodded gratefully to both of them.

Sufficient.

I sat and ate while the two swordsmen repositioned themselves.

The roof was huge, probably fifty feet long and maybe thirty feet in width. Normally, it would have been more than enough room to spar safely, even with us innocent bystanders sitting and watching.

But these were hardly normal combatants.

I sincerely hoped they were paying enough attention to avoid collateral damage. The barrier from my phoenix sigil wouldn’t do much against a direct hit from either of them.

“You need me to fix those?” Keras waved at the broken swords that Derek was holding.

“No need.” Derek held up the two hilts and concentrated. Blades of fire extended from the shattered metal, flickering in the wind but retaining a near- solid state. “I think you’ll find this somewhat harder to cut.”

Keras took a step forward, taking a medium fencing stance with his sword blade extended. “You might be surprised.”

Derek rushed forward, crossing the rooftop at a sprint. He swept the flaming blades downward. Keras raised his own weapon to parry, but the fire swords went right through it without resistance.

They were fire, not steel, after all.

Keras stepped back, avoiding the cuts a moment before they landed. Then the flaming blades separated into pieces and dispersed.

Derek stared downward at the hilts, then looked back up toward Keras. “I’m going to be honest, I’m pretty sure that shouldn’t be possible. Fire doesn’t work like that.”

Keras grinned. “Anything can be cut. At least if you’re me.”

Derek narrowed his eyes. “I suppose I’ll need to put in a hint of effort, then.”

I’d never seen Derek look this stymied before — but he didn’t seem angry. From his expression, he looked like he was finally starting to take this sparring match seriously.

That could be bad for us mere bystanders.

Derek took a step backward, lifting the hilts again. Instead of flames, the blades that grew from the hilts were new metal — a shining white materialthat I didn’t recognize. His aura flared bright yellow and extended over the weapons, visible even without my attunement active.

He was wrapping the swords in his shroud, protecting them from being broken. Not a bad strategy, but I couldn’t do it myself. I’d need to be at least Sunstone-level to do something like that.

Derek rushed forward again, keeping his left arm down in a blocking position while he swung with his right. His sword met Keras’ — and this time it held.

Barely.

The aura around Derek’s sword flickered and cracked as their swords pressed together.

Keras smirked and pushed his blade down.

Derek stepped back, breaking the push, and swung his off-hand at Keras’ mid-section. A golden wave of force followed the cut. Keras cut that in half, but it was a distraction.

Derek stomped his foot.

Spikes ripped free from the rooftop and flew upward. Keras, mid-swing from cutting the last attack apart, barely managed to dance backward to dodge the rock projectiles.

That wasn’t the real attack, either.

When Keras landed, his feet immediately began to sink into the rooftop. A section of stone had liquefied.

Derek snapped his fingers.

Keras’ feet were embedded in stone. He spared a glance downward, looking introspective, and then raised his blade into a defensive stance. “Not bad. Planning ahead, I see. What’s next?”

“Well, since you can’t dodge...” Derek raised his open hand and pointed it at Keras. A sphere of flame manifested in his palm. “Let’s see how much damage you can handle, shall we?”

Derek hurled the sphere. It detonated a few feet in front of Keras, the explosion obscuring the area. I had to raise a hand to shield my eyes from both the brightness and the debris.

Then Derek hurled another fireball — and another, and another. He shoved his blade into the rooftop and hurled them faster, using both hands.

A good thirty seconds passed before I could see Keras clearly again. Smoke was rising from his skin, but he showed no sign of injury. He shook his head. “Has throwing a barrage of weak attacks ever worked for anyone?” Keras sighed. “You’re not taking this seriously.”

The translucent aura around Keras flickered silver for just an instant.

In that instant, the section of floor beneath Keras vanished, removing the stone that had encased his feet. The gap beneath him was a smooth, round section, like an invisible sphere had cut into it.

There was no trace of the missing stone; not even dust.

I stared, evaluating what I was seeing. It was a subtle thing, nothing as flashy as the blasts of flame that Derek had been hurling — but the implications were far more terrifying. He’d annihilated that area without even blinking. I’d never seen anything like it.

Then Keras was gone. His sword remained behind, jammed into the rooftop like Derek’s.

I shifted my head, and there he was again. Behind Derek. He flicked a finger into Derek’s back.

Crack.

A shockwave of force blasted Derek off his feet, sending him forward several feet. He landed, skidded across the ground, and spun to hurl a jet of flame as a counter-attack.

Keras wasn’t there, though. I couldn’t follow his movement at all — he looked like he was teleporting, but his running stance when he reappeared told me otherwise. He was just moving too fast for me to see.

Derek started to swing a fist — and then he flew backward again. Keras stood with his right hand extended with an open palm. He smirked.

When Derek landed, his aura flared Emerald.

I managed to follow the blur of Keras’ movement the next time, and I saw him reappear.

Derek had caught Keras’ hand. Their fingers were interlocked.

For a moment, the two fighters paused. Sparks crackled in the air as their shrouds met and pushed against each other.

Keras shoved his hand forward. Derek frowned, forced back a step by the motion, and threw a kick with his forward leg. Keras raised his opposite leg toblock and threw a punch with his free hand, but Derek moved his head to the side and avoided it.

Derek stomped the floor again. Keras jumped to avoid the spikes that formed — but Derek maintained his grip and yanked Keras back down.

Keras answered by kicking both legs into Derek’s chest as he descended, breaking the link between their hands and hurling the combatants apart.

Keras was moving again the instant he landed, but four walls of stone leapt out of the ground around Derek. Keras punched through the closest wall repeatedly, digging fist-sized holes with each strike. A blast of lightning shot out through the largest hole and hit Keras dead-on, knocking him back.

Keras shivered briefly, his expression showing a flicker of pain.

Interesting, I think that’s the first attack Derek has managed to land that had any real effect.

Keras blurred again, reappearing next to the wall. The aura around his hand flickered brighter.

The wall collapsed into a dozen perfectly-symmetrical pieces.

Derek had electricity dancing along his fingers when he appeared amidst the rubble. He punched Keras in the face with an electrically-charged fist.

Keras recoiled from the blow, but it didn’t slow him much. He raised his own hand, but Derek moved quicker this time, shoving both hands toward Keras’ chest. A blinding column of lightning sent Keras staggering back — and flowed continuously into him without abating.

Keras’ aura brightened, shining silver.

Then a section of lightning was just gone. It was just like what had happened with the stone — as soon as the lightning was getting within range of a spherical aura around Keras, it simply vanished into nothingness.

The floor beneath Keras disintegrated at the same time, and he dropped down an inch before his aura normalized.

Derek pressed the attack, but the moment to recover was all Keras needed. He raised a hand of his own, palm-outward, and shoved it into the oncoming lightning. The voltaic stream split apart, jutting out to Keras’ sides without touching him.

He waved his hand upward and a crescent blade of energy shot through the lightning stream toward Derek, cleaving through the electrical column with ease.

Derek side-stepped the cutting wave, but that forced him to abandon the lightning attack. Keras vanished, reappearing next to Derek and sweeping his hand downward in a cutting motion.

I saw Derek’s Emerald aura tear as Keras’ hand passed through it. Keras fingers passed within inches of Derek’s neck.

A bloody line appeared on Derek’s skin in the hand’s wake.

I felt a surge of panic, standing up out of instinct, but when Derek raised his own hand and wiped the blood away it was clearly nothing more than a scratch.

That wasn’t because of Derek’s aura protecting him, though, or his own reaction. That perfect of a cut, leaving nothing but a reminder — that was deliberate. It was masterful.

Derek knew it, too. Many fighters would have responded with anger or fear, but Derek’s grin only widened.

That was a far more dangerous response.

“That’s...” Derek looked at the thin layer of blood on his hand. “You’re not even an attuned at all, are you?”

Keras took a step back and cracked his neck. “You’re not wrong.”

The rest of us were dead silent as we watched, still transfixed with the exchange.

Derek’s eyes brightened as he stepped back and assumed a defensive stance. “What are you, truly, then?”

Keras put his hands together and cracked his knuckles. “Wouldn’t it be more interesting if you figured it out on your own?”

Yes, but I’d really rather you tell us anyway, I mused.

Derek disagreed, apparently. “Oh, I’ve got some ideas. Both about what you are — and about your weaknesses.”

Keras put his hands behind his head, stretching again. “That’d be interesting. I wasn’t aware I had weaknesses.”

“Weaknesses are relative. And relative to me, everyone has weaknesses.” Derek snapped his fingers. “Tavare, awaken.”

I saw Derek’s true weapons lying against a nearby wall. A column of golden light enveloped one of the weapons as it began to float of its own accord.

With the sound of a chime, Tavare appeared. They were a perfectly- sculpted golden figure, human save for the metallic scales that covered every inch of exposed skin aside from their face. Even their face was metallic in color, but the scales reflected with greater luster.

Tavare rushed forward, a luminous blur, and took a defensive position in front of their master.

Something was amiss, however. Tavare was trembling.

“Master, you must withdraw. Radiance will engage this foe while you escape.” The golden scales flashed brighter, as if with determination.

Derek blinked. “That won’t be necessary, Tavare. We’ll fight him together.”

Tavare’s eyes narrowed skeptically, but remained focused on Keras. “You must not fight this creature, Master. You must defend the others who are weaker than you. Radiance will defend for as long as it can. It has been an honor to serve you.”

Keras tilted his head to the side, looking intrigued. He raised a hand and a blade-like distortion appeared around it.

Tavare tensed as the weapon appeared, taking a step forward. “Go.”

Derek put a hand on Tavare’s shoulder. “That was a...humbling speech you gave, Tavare, but this is just a sparring match. There’s no need to be concerned.”

Tavare shuddered again. “You do not understand what you face, Master.” The golden-skinned creature stepped forward, raising their blade toward Keras. “Radiance will not allow you to harm these mortals, monster.”

Keras sighed. “Your master speaks truly, cousin. I do not mean these people harm.”

Tavare continued to advance on Keras, blade outstretched, until their golden blade was pressed directly up against his chest. “Then withdraw. Radiance will not—”

Tavare’s blade was no longer in their hand. It embedded itself into the stone nearby.

Derek surged forward, but he wasn’t fast enough.

Keras’ hand was at the elemental’s neck, the blade-like aura still glimmering in place.

Tavare fell to their knees. “Radiance begs forgiveness for daring to raise a blade against you, Great One. They offer their life for the offense, but implores you to spare these humans. The humans are young and have great potential.”

Keras shook his head sadly, lowering his blade-hand and putting his other hand on the top of Tavare’s head.

A red-bladed sword appeared in Derek’s hand. “If you mean to hurt Tavere, I will stop you.”

Keras sighed and rustled Tavare’s short metallic hair. “You’re a loyal one. I meant it when I said I don’t mean these people any harm. You have nothing to fear from me.”

Tavare raised their head just an inch. “Truly?”

The blade-like aura around Keras’ right hand faded. “I have no interest in harming anyone if I can avoid it.”

Tavare’s expression twisted into a frown. “But such is your essence, Great One. How can you...not harm?”

Keras pulled his other hand away, then knelt down and looked straight into Tavare’s eyes.

For a moment, even at a distance, I could see silver in his gaze.

“With great effort,” he said. “And a considerable degree of outside help.”

Tavare turned their head to the side, looking perplexed. “Radiance does not understand. But... Radiance is grateful.”

Keras offered a soft smile. “Maybe you will someday.”

Tavare lowered their head again. “Will you teach me, Great One?” Keras offered Tavare a hand. “I can try.”

“Try.” Tavere nodded. “Yes. Radiance will also try.” The golden creature accepted Keras’ offered hand, and Keras pulled Tavare back to its feet.

Keras turned toward Derek. “I think we’re done for today.”

Derek lowered his sword. “Agreed. Thank you for the match.” He bowed formally at the waist. “Can I trust you will not harm my friend with whatever ‘lessons’ you have planned?”

Keras returned the bow and then raised both hands in a defensive gesture. “We’re just going to talk.”

Derek leaned his sword against his shoulder. “I’d be very interested in hearing about what you discuss.”

Keras shook his head. “I’m afraid any conversation that I’m having with Tavare is going to need to be private, at least for now. It will be simpler that way. I’m sure you understand.”

“Well, that can wait until I’ve had more time to think about all this, then.

Tavere, return.”

The golden-skinned figure lowered their head. “Radiance obeys.” Tavere shifted into mist, the golden sword clattering to the ground.

Keras folded his arms. “That wasn’t necessary.”

“I think it was. You’ve given me a great deal to think about today, and I appreciate it. But until I understand more about what you are, I’d rather avoid taking more risks.”

Keras raised a hand, and his own true weapon — a greatsword in a white scabbard with a spherical metal pommel — flew to it. “Fine. But you’re putting your suspicions over the potential for your friend to learn and grow.”

Derek shrugged. “I’m certain we can make some sort of arrangement eventually.”

Keras reattached his scabbard to his belt, which looked rather awkward, since the weapon was so large that it nearly dragged against the ground. Then he turned to walk toward the hatch to exit the roof. “Your friend can make their own choices.”

Derek let Keras leave without saying another word, then wiped his forehead with his free hand. “So...who wants to help me fix the roof?”

***“That was so amazing.” Patrick was so excited that he was practically vibrating. “I’ve never seen a fight like that before!”

I was less interested in how impressive the fight was and more curious about what Tavare had been talking about.

It had called Keras “Great One”. What did that mean?Derek had assessed that Keras wasn’t an attuned at all, and when I’d seen Keras fight my mother, she’d made a remark about his shroud not working properly.

What was he?He could fight against a visage, at least for the short period of time I’d seen him dueling with Katashi. If he was a visage himself, that would explain how broad and unusual his abilities were.

He claimed to be from a faraway land, but was that a ruse? Or were the visages themselves foreigners, perhaps?If he wasn’t a visage, a child of the Tyrant in Gold was another strong possibility. If Tavare had some way of sensing that, it certainly would have explained why it had been so fearful. Would it call a demigod like that “Great One”, though? That sounded like a title of respect.

What would a summoned monster respect? A visage? A god beast, perhaps?That was a worrying notion. Perhaps even more than the idea of a child of the Tyrant in Gold, a humanoid god beast...

That was similar to what Echion was being pushed toward, too, wasn’t it?Could Keras have been an earlier experiment, or something similar?I had too many questions.

I felt some sympathy for Derek. I was pretty sure he was trying to find out the same things, and using that sparring session to draw out details.

I didn’t respond to Patrick in a timely fashion, I was too lost in thought.

Fortunately, I didn’t need to. Someone else shared his enthusiasm.

“I couldn’t believe it! Remember when Keras was like...” Marissa made a swipe at the air with an open palm.

“And then Derek was like...” Patrick brought his own hand toward Marissa’s, catching it.

I smiled at the reenactment, but I had other things on my mind.

Like food, for example. I’d eaten the couple things they’d handed me on the rooftop, but I was still starving.

I made my way down the stairs to the kitchen, barely aware of the conversation happening around me.

Eventually, Patrick wandered off to go play a game of Valor with Sera. Marissa stayed to get herself more food, but she picked a spot at the other side of the table rather than sitting next to me. She looked introspective, so I didn’t bother her.

I made it into the middle of breakfast before Derek arrived downstairs andsat down at the table across from me. “How’s your recovery coming along?I’d barely been thinking about that. I still had a throbbing pain in my back from where I’d nearly been crushed by a giant spider, but the ring of regeneration was working to repair that damage. Most of my other injuries had healed.

I still had some half-healed cuts on my hand from when I’d detonated Jin’s phoenix sigil, nearly killing him. I tried not to think too much about that.

My worst symptoms were a killer headache and a perpetual burning sensation in the new attunement on my right hand. I still hadn’t figured out what it was. “I’m intact. Better than I could be, considering what we just went through.”

Derek nodded in understanding. “I should mention that I appreciate your help in freeing me from that ring.” He shuddered. “I don’t like to think about what I’d be doing if you hadn’t.”

“You’re welcome. I know it wasn’t you that was attacking us back there.

And thanks for letting us stay at your house.”

He waved a hand dismissively. “It’s just practical at this point. I usually house my climber team here before and after we head into the tower. Since we just went in the tower together, I consider you a part of my team.”

I took the compliment for what it was and smiled. “Appreciated. Hope we won’t have to go back in there any time soon, though.”

He shifted to a more serious expression. “Agreed. You should sit this out for a while, at least until you recover. I can take care of things from here.”

I set my food down. “That’s not quite what I meant. If you’re going back in there, I should be going with you. I’m too deep in this to back out now.”

“The only reason I agreed to bring a Quartz into the tower in the first place was because Katashi had specifically marked you, Corin. Even then, it was a terrible idea, and I shouldn’t have let Orden convince me. I know you still want to help, but you can do that without putting yourself in more danger.”

“I think we just established that you would still be under Orden’s control if not for my help.”

Derek sighed. “With the way things happened in there, yeah. But if I’d had my way, I would have brought a team of Citrines and Emeralds to escort Vera. Orden wouldn’t have been able to seize control of all of us at once, and some of them might have even been able to break me out faster if I’d been wearing the ring.”

He paused, putting his palm to his forehead. “I don’t like to admit this, but Orden played all of us. That group was composed of people that Orden thought she could handle. She obviously underestimated you and Sera. I don’t think anyone could have predicted Sera would demonstrate that kind of power as a first-year student. But Sera isn’t in fighting shape now and you’re still a Quartz.”

I raised my right hand, then flicked on my attunement for just an instant to confirm a suspicion. “Actually, I’m not.”

Derek blinked. He obviously couldn’t see the crimson aura that I’d just seen around my own body for the first time, but he put the implication together. “Your new attunement is stronger, I take it?”

“Carnelian. I still don’t know exactly what it does, but I’ve used my right hand for dueling so much that I must have already had enough mana for my second attunement to be Carnelian as soon as I got it.”

He folded his hands back together, giving me a thoughtful look. “That’s unusual. Your right hand was stronger than your actual attuned location? I’m not sure I’ve seen that before.”

He shook his head, as if to dismiss that line of thought. “Anyway, congratulations. It’s a significant milestone to reach Carnelian, especially as a first-year student. And having two attunements is admittedly useful. But you still shouldn’t be coming with me into the tower until you’re vastly stronger.”

I shrugged at that. From a logical standpoint, I didn’t really disagree with him. Even if I’d managed to help in the tower before, that didn’t mean he could rely on me to be similarly useful in the future, and he was right that a Citrine or Emerald ally would probably contribute more to his success in a climb.

Presuming there were a sufficient number of people he could trust, that is.

I changed the subject just a bit. “I’m not sure the next thing we need to look into is even in the tower. Assuming you’re still trying to track down Orden’s operation, our best lead is Elora Theas.”

Derek winced when I said the name. Derek and Elora had been romantically involved, and they’d had a falling out after he discovered what she was up to.

So, I wasn’t surprised that Derek looked decidedly unhappy when he replied. “You’re not wrong. There were other members of the group that went with her and Vera, but I believe they’re either still in the tower or in hiding elsewhere. Perhaps working on the artificial attunements that Orden described.”

“Do you know why Elora isn’t with them?”

He glanced away from me. “Yeah. She came to me for help. She knew they’d gotten into danger after they kidnapped Tenjin and they needed more allies. She... expected me to agree to help her. I threw her out of my house.”

Awkward.

I’d done worse to Jin in a similar situation, though, so I could sympathize. “You did the right thing. Do you think she’s still trying to gather more support?”

Derek nodded. “Definitely. She’s charismatic, and House Theas has powerful friends everywhere — even outside of this continent, if rumors are to be believed. I suspect she’s been gathering people and sending them to wherever Orden had been holding the kidnapped visage.”

“And you don’t have any idea where that place is?”

He shook his head. “I’ve tried following her directly, but I don’t think she’s actually been going to that location. I think she’s just giving information to people, then they’re probably meeting with other intermediaries to learn the rendezvous point. In truth, you were one of the people I was watching. I suspected that even if you weren’t directly involved, you might know something.”

I sighed, taking a drink of water before replying. “You might have been close to the mark, in truth.”

He raised an eyebrow. “Oh? Are you saying you were involved?”

I shook my head. “Not directly or intentionally. But,” I tensed, then steeled myself to continue, “Katashi mentioned that my brother was involved.”

Derek didn’t look even slightly surprised. “Right. That’s why I was investigating you.”

I blinked. “You knew?”

Derek shrugged. “Sure. When Elora first tried to get me involved, she told me that Tristan was one of the people leading the operation. Tristan, Elora, and I were friends in school, before we’d earned our attunements. She thought that telling me he was involved would help convince me.”

“And it didn’t?”

“Quite the opposite, actually. I’d assumed Tristan was dead for years. And now he’s alive and engaging in clandestine operations involving kidnapping visages? That’s nothing if not suspicious.”

Derek paused, looking contemplative. “I considered agreeing to help just to learn more about what they were up to. It would have been the wise move, in truth. But Elora has always been able to see right through my attempts at guile. I think that would have led to a far worse confrontation.”

I turned my head down, staring blankly at my food. “I wish you’d have at least told me he was alive.”

“You didn’t know?”

I shook my head. “Nope. Not until Katashi told me that Tristan was one of the kidnappers.”

Derek gave me an apologetic look. “Uh, sorry about that. As I said, I thought you might be working with him, or otherwise aware of his movements.”

It was a logical assumption.

Trust within a family sounded so reasonable on the surface.

I set my jaw and tried to regain my focus on the conversation. “All right. I don’t blame you. For the moment, let’s focus on moving forward. If you’ve already turned Elora down, and she’s looking for allies, do you think I could convince her to let me in on her plans?”

He raised a hand to his chin, seeming to consider that. “Doubtful. Your connection to Tristan would be a good opening, but she has ways to determine if someone is telling the truth. Beyond that, Orden probably has been keeping her apprised of the situation, including your role. It would probably just get you captured.”

“Okay. What about one of the others, then? Would Orden have told her about Patrick or Marissa?”

“Maybe not, but they’re not significant enough for Elora to pay attention.” Marissa turned toward us, looking a little hurt. “...Are we really thatunimportant?”

I hadn’t realized she’d even been listening.

Derek waved a placating hand at her. “Not that you’re not amazing, Marissa. I’m just saying she’d probably only be interested in someone with a great deal of power — magically or politically.”

Marissa frowned. “I s’pose that’s how most nobles think, ain’t it?”

Derek gave her a sheepish grin. “Sorry, sorry.” He turned back to me. “Anyway, I don’t know if we have anyone who would be able to infiltrate her operation.”

I considered that. “Keras? He’s obviously powerful.”

Derek shook his head again. “Definitely not a good idea. I doubt she’d work with him, and if she did, I’d be worried that she’d convince him to stay on their side.”

I got the implication and felt mildly offended on Keras’ behalf. He didn’t seem to be the type to be easily tricked into changing his allegiances. But, then again, I didn’t really know Keras. And Derek was right about the possible risks. “Okay. Weird question, but do you know if my mother is connected with them?”

Derek frowned. “I was hoping you could tell me that. I know she’s on the Council of Lords with Elora, and that she tends to push for bolstering our military, but I don’t know if she’d agree with using artificial attuned for that purpose.”

Mother was something of a traditionalist, which made me think that she’d oppose making artificial attuned. But if the idea of gaining more military power for the country conflicted with her sense of traditionalism, I didn’t know which would win out. “I’ll see if I can contact her and find out if she’s involved.”

“Good. Just be discrete. I suppose I’ll see if I can talk some sense into Elora, but don’t get your hopes too high.”

I nodded absently, my mind already shifting into other topics. I’d figure out how to extract what Elora knew later. “Do you think I need to be worried about reprisals for taking action against Orden, or based on how much I know?”

“Yes, but I don’t think anyone will act immediately. I spoke to Lord Teft and Vice Chancellor Bennet while you were asleep and filled them in on the situation. We agreed that you and the others should continue attending yourclasses normally, but I’d advise you to continue to stay here at night.”

I folded my arms. “I wish you would have talked to me before discussing anything with Teft. He was clearly involved with Orden on...some level, if not with this plan.”

Derek chuckled. “I suppose his situation isn’t much different from mine, in a way. I don’t think Orden ever let him in on any of the details, though. Teft would never have approved of attacking Tenjin. He might not look like it, but he’s fiercely devoted to the goddess.”

Teft? Religious?Huh. Wouldn’t have expected that.

I mean, virtually everyone worshipped the goddess to some degree, but I didn’t take Teft for the type to be particularly dedicated to anyone other than himself.

...That was kind of a mean line of thinking, though, and it wasn’t exactly fair. He’d pushed himself to near unconsciousness keeping us safe from Mizuchi, and in spite of his antics in class, he was extraordinarily careful to make certain his students were taking proper safety measures.

I’d been judging him largely based on our first meeting, which was admittedly a terrible first impression. But in fairness, the teacher who had seemed nice was the one who was actually masterminding a scheme on a national scale, so maybe I just needed to stop judging people on appearances.

“I understand your reasoning, but I’m still not sure I can trust him.” I tightened my jaw. “Then again, I’m not sure I can trust anyone right now.”

“That brings me to another point, actually.” Derek shook his head. “I didn’t tell Teft or the vice chancellor about Jin. I wanted to get your take on it first.”

I winced. “Do you know what happened to him?”

Derek shook his head. “No. I just know what you told me and Keras, and I haven’t followed up. Do you think he’s a threat?”

I thought back to what Jin had said when we’d fought. He’d made it clear that he wasn’t a spy for another government...he was just trying to protect his own homeland.

That was no excuse for what he did, but I didn’t expect him to take other immediate steps to cause harm. “I don’t think I can make an accurate assessment of that. I clearly misjudged him before.” I hesitated, then added, “But for what it’s worth, I don’t think he’s probably a threat to either of us. And I don’t see him doing anything to directly sabotage Valia, either. Hisaction was opportunistic. Now that Vera is out of his reach, I don’t see him doing anything drastic.”

Derek nodded, considering. “Sounds about right.” He drummed his fingers on the table. “Okay. Here’s what I’m going to do. I’m going to hire someone to keep any eye on him for a while, just to see if he does anything suspicious. But I won’t turn him in to the vice chancellor, not yet. Treason charges aren’t the kind of thing you walk away from, and I get the impression he doesn’t deserve that kind of punishment.”

I raised an eyebrow. “I’m surprised you’re being that charitable.”

Derek shrugged. “I’ve seen the kinds of things being an outsider can do to someone. And, for what it’s worth, I’m not convinced Vera didn’t deserve what she got.”

I blinked. “I thought you liked her.”

“I did. Doesn’t mean she was a good person. I’ve done a lot of digging into those artificial attunements over the years, and the picture isn’t pretty.” Derek shook his head. “That’s a topic for another time, though. For the moment, I have a present for you.”

He took out a stick.

I put a hand over my heart. “Such a touching gift! You shouldn’t have.”

The swordsman shoved the piece of wood in my direction. I accepted it with more curiosity than cynicism, turning it over in my hands. No obvious runes.

I turned my attunement on.

The glow was very subtle, but it was there. Just a hint of a colorless translucent field, like around a Quartz-level attuned, but fainter. If I wasn’t looking for it in specific, I was confident I wouldn’t have noticed it. Even looking straight at it I was half-convinced it was just in my mind.

I frowned, turning my attunement back off.

“That,” Derek gestured, “Is perhaps the world’s most advanced magical object.”

My eyes shifted down, then back to him. “Yeah, no, not believing that.”

He laughed. “Okay, fine, it’s a stick. But it is a magical item — and, as I’m sure you noticed, not a typical one.”

“No runes.” I ran my fingers across the surface. “Not even invisible ones.” I paused, considering. “Wait. Is this one of your Soulblade items?”

“Oh, no, I don’t like you that much. It’s just an unusual enchanting style.” I turned it over in my hands. “Where are the runes?”

“That’s between me and the Enchanter who made it.” He grinned. “And that gives you an advantage. No one knows to look for it.”

Hrm. Maybe he carved runes on an inner rod and glued this bark onto it? Or maybe there aren’t any runes, and it’s alchemically treated somehow? I turned the stick over in my hands, pondering.

“So, what’s it actually do?”

“If you crack it in half, it sends a signal to a linked item in my possession. My item will make a sound and begin to glow. Once I notice it, I can activate my item to see a visible trail to the location of your stick.”

I raised a hand to my chin, thinking. “It’s an emergency signal. That’s good, but wouldn’t something like a return bell be better?”

Derek grinned. “Sure, but those are expensive. Sticks are cheap.”

“Thanks, Derek. Your generosity is overwhelming.” I set the stick down on the table. “If I get my bell back at some point, could I set it to teleport here?”

“Nope. Anti-teleportation field around the whole house. You’d need a key to circumvent it — and I’m not letting you make one of those. Besides, standard return bells only work if you’re in the spire. They draw on the tower’s mana or something. You can make ones that work anywhere, but they’re more expensive and have a shorter range. We usually call those jump bells.”

Huh. I guess that’s why the ones we used during the fake tower tests worked a little bit differently?I’ll have to keep that in mind for the future.

I nodded. “Okay. Do you have more magic sticks, at least? Sera, Marissa, and Patrick could probably use them.”

“I can handle making those. Might take a few days, but I’ll get one for each of them.”

“Okay, thanks.” My mind was starting to wander onto the next steps in my plan. I should figure out how to make one of those more advanced return bells. I think Derek called them jump bells? They’re probably too powerful for me to assemble on my own right now, but I could start working toward it.

Derek raised a single finger. “One more thing. That new attunementyou’ve got? I’m pretty sure it’s either an ascended attunement or a restricted attunement.”

I tilted my head to the side. “What are those?”

I’d heard of ascended attunements briefly, but I had no idea what restricted attunements were.

“Ascended attunements are attunements that have progressed to the point of changing into something new. They can generally do everything a normal attunement can, but some new things.”

“So, they’re just more powerful than normal attunements?” I asked.

Derek shook his head. “It’s not a matter of power, like progressing from Quartz to Carnelian would be. Ascended attunements just have new things they can do, like giving you additional types of mana or new abilities. Before you ask, I don’t know how to get one, and I don’t know much about how they work. Believe me, I’ve been trying to figure that out for a while.”

I nodded.

Derek continued. “I think it’s more likely you’ve got a restricted attunement. There are a handful of attunements you can’t get out of a standard Judgment. The only known people with them are the ones that the visages hand them to. No pun intended there. It’s possible they normally come from Judgments in the Spider Spire, but since no one knows where that is, it’s impossible to say.”

Now that was interesting. “Isn’t there some kind of seventh tower in the middle of the Unclaimed Lands, too?”

“Oh, that?” Derek laughed again. “It’s real, but it’s useless, as far as I can tell. I’ve been there. It looks like a Soaring Spire — maybe even bigger, actually. It’s cylindrical, and it’s the only one that’s perfectly smooth. There’s only one set of gates, and it’s locked tight. Couldn’t put a scratch on them.”

“...You tried to blast your way into a spire?”

Derek shrugged. “I was bored, alone, and hundreds of miles from home. I didn’t want to waste the whole trip out there. So, yeah. I tried to break into the tower...a lot. I tried climbing it, too. Summoned my pact-bound friends. Nothing we tried worked.”

Huh. “Okay. Well, it’s probably not related to this.”

He raised a hand to his chin. “Unless you can get in there through the other towers. If there’s a way to teleport from another tower, it’d be a perfect safe hiding place for the people who captured Tenjin... Presuming the place is setup like the other spires, of course, and that there are safe spots. Which there might not be.”

“I’ll try to do some research on that, too, if I can find the time.”

“Don’t worry about that spire. You were right — it’s probably not related. If you really want to be involved with this, I definitely think talking to your mother should be the priority. Aside from that, let’s get you and your friends strong enough that I’ll be comfortable taking you with me to the tower if I need to.”

I nodded. “Sounds like a good plan. Does that mean you’re going to offer us some kind of special training? Teach us the secrets of how you reached Emerald at such a young age, maybe?”

“Goddess, no. I don’t have time for that.” Derek grinned. “But you know?Keras might.”

I thought back to Derek’s Emerald-level summoned monster panicking at the idea of even sparring with Keras.

This was a terrible idea.

Marissa and I stood up at the same time, then glanced meaningfully at each other.

Well, at least I’m not the only crazy one.

