CHAPTER IX – REST AND RECOVERY



I ended up doing the bulk of the cleaning. In spite of Sheridan’s joking about making Derek do the work, I owed him a great deal for both housing us and letting us make a mess in his lab.

I helped put his equipment back, too.

Sera wrote that she felt miserable in the aftermath, but she seemed stable.

She coughed a bit more here and there, but there was a minimal amount of blood, and fortunately, no more of the liquefied scar tissue.

More importantly?She already could whisper again.

It just provoked a series of terrible coughs every time she did.

I reminded her every time that Sheridan had told her not to try to talk for a few days, but Sera was just so happy to be able to communicate verbally at all, she couldn’t stop herself.

She gave me a few more hugs, too, in the direct aftermath. I braced myself for them as best I could. I knew she was just excited.

The most common thing she tried to whisper was some variation on “thank you” for helping her.

That mostly made me feel more awful.

I still felt like the whole thing was my fault on some level, since I’d given her that potion. The whole “it was what let us survive” thing was great, but I had a hard time internalizing that and pushing the self-recrimination out of the way.

It helped that we’d made some progress, though, and I was determined todo more.

Sheridan had given us some hope that Sera’s condition was fixable, even if Sheridan wasn’t certain they could fix it entirely through this method.

If a cure existed, I’d find it.

But for the moment, I had a more pressing priority.

The next dueling exam was coming up, and I didn’t feel even close to ready. I was probably one of the strongest general duelists in my own class, but there were still types of attunements that I didn’t have a good way of countering.

Especially Shapers.

I had plenty of practice “training” against my father, but I still didn’t have any effective means of countering his attunement. The tiles seemed like my best bet, but a skilled Shaper could still shield themselves from the effects of stepping on one.

I spent some time putting together ideas on how to handle each attunement, making some notes. It comforted me to get into that familiar mode, almost like I was preparing for my Judgment again.

But I was still nervous.

I made another mana watch to help diminish my anxiety. I tried to convince myself that I was working on ways to improve my original design, but I knew the truth. I’d grown completely reliant on the mana measurements. I didn’t know if I could function without them.

I felt a little better when it was done. I’d built in one extra function; the new device stored and displayed the last two measurements, rather than just one. It was an incremental improvement, but the bit of progress made me feel less guilty about spending my time on the watch.

The watch was simple enough that it didn’t take long to make, even with the improvements, but at that point the pain had finally gotten to the point where it wasn’t manageable.

If I’d been a more social person, maybe I would have spent the few remaining hours of the night checking in to see how Sera was doing or visiting Marissa or Patrick.

But that wasn’t me.

I spent the rest of the night reading instead.

I still had so many things I needed to learn. I had a bad habit of realizing Iwas behind on a subject and ignoring it in favor of something that felt more urgent.

I needed to work on breaking that habit, and I was going to start with something that I was interested in studying.

Foreign attunements were a tempting prospect, but I decided to research something a little bit more immediately relevant — tracking magic.

Even if the spire was sealed, there was still a good chance I’d need to track my brother down soon. To do that, I’d need to have at least a basic understanding of the types of tracking magic that were available.

I didn’t have any specific books on the subject, but Derek had a library, and I was able to find a general book on Divination. I paged through it, stopping at a section that caught my eye.

One of the traditional uses of Divination in noble households is paternity testing. In older houses where the retaining purity of a bloodline is of paramount importance, such spells are often used prior to the declaration that a child of questionable birth is an authentic family member.

Similarly, when a “family member” disappears for a long time — say, during war — and later returns, similar spells are often used to verify the person’s identity.

In cases where an entire family is believed to have been wiped out during an event, authentication spells can be used to compare the bloodline of a claimant to a stored blood sample — or even a relic that had been exposed to an ancient family member — to determine if an ancestral connection exists.

This practice is somewhat controversial, as seen in the case of the Errant Prince of Valia in the third century...

I shut the book for a moment, considering.

Given how flexible these spells seem to be, I could almost definitely get a Diviner to test if Sera and I are really related — and if so, I could probably even get more specific details.

But do I really care?If the results told me we’re not related, would that change things for the better?Probably not.

Father was presumably using the idea of Sera being my sibling as a way to try to create competition between us.

If so, he had utterly failed in that regard.

There were minor practical elements to knowing if we were blood related, though. If Derek thought that we could track Tristan using my blood as a focus, that meant it might be possible to track Sera through the same means— or to track me through her. Maybe it was worth investigating if that was possible.

It was worth thinking about.

More importantly, it was worth asking Sera about.

I’d made the mistake of making a big decision — making Patrick a retainer— without asking her.

I wasn’t going to make that kind of mistake again if I could avoid it.

I wasn’t going to ask her that night, though. I was still overloaded on social activity. I couldn’t handle more contact with people.

I kept reading instead, eventually finding the closest thing to the section I’d originally been looking for.

There are three basic location spells, each of which has numerous variants with more distinct function.

Arrow of Direction shows the caster a visible arrow pointing toward the current direction of the target. The most basic version only lasts a few moments. More powerful versions remain active and continuously shift based on the movements of the caster and the target.

Locate Target shows the caster an image of the target and their current surroundings. More powerful versions persist longer, show a larger area, or include senses other than sight. Using the Locate Target spell through a focus, such as a pool of water or a mirror, is often known as “scrying”.

Evaluate Distance tells the caster how far their target is away from them. More powerful versions work at longer ranges, or also include if the target is moving and the direction of their movement.

Various combinations of these spells also exist; it is extremely common to find spells that combine Arrow of Direction and Evaluate Distance, for example.

Note that spells also exist to block Divination attempts. In these cases,more raw power is required for a Divination to break through the defending spell, much like how an attack spell would need to break through a barrier.

That was all useful information. Now, I just needed to figure out how to get into the spire to make use of it, or maybe test some of the spells outside the spire to see what happened.

A few hours of reading had calmed my nerves a bit and helped diminish the pain in my hand to a manageable level.

I still wasn’t ready to sleep, but I forced myself into bed. Tomorrow, I had training to do.

