CHAPTER XII – LESSONS LEARNED



I pulled Sera aside when we got back to Derek’s house, asking a question I’d been thinking about since the match. “...What was with the tiny Vanniv?”

She chortled. “Remember how I summoned a weaker version of Seiryu in the spire? Same principle. Summoners usually learn to summon stronger versions of their monsters. I’ve been practicing summoning weaker versions since I got my attunement, so I could eventually learn to summon a weaker version of Seiryu like that. I doubt I’ll ever be able to summon Seiryu at her full strength.”

She shrugged a shoulder, then continued. “Anyway, that was a depowered version of Vanniv. I still don’t have enough strength back to summon the real thing.”

That made sense to me, although I wouldn’t have expected a weaker version to be smaller, even though that was what had happened with Seiryu. Maybe that was just the particular way she’d learned to decrease the power of the monsters she was summoning.

“How functional is your attunement, then?”

Sera shook her head. “Barely at all. I figured out how to break my contracts using my hand, and cast some spells with it. I’ve been recovering a little since then, but not a lot. I can only cast the most basic spells, and even that takes a lot out of me.”

I nodded. “Glad you’re recovering at all.”

“Yeah. I feel more like myself again. I don’t like being useless.” She scratched at her back, where her mark was located. “My attunement feels different now. Not worse...just different.”

“But it still works?”

“Yeah. In fact, Vanniv told me he felt a stronger connection with me, and that maybe we could do something new with it. I’m going to experiment with that when I’ve recovered a bit more.” She coughed, lifting a hand to her throat. “Think I need to stop talking for a while. That match took a lot out of me.”

“Do you need to go to the hospital again?”

She shook her head. “No, it’s not that bad. Just need to rest.” “Okay. I’ll see you later.”

I headed back to my own room to isolate myself for a while after that, thinking about what she’d said. It was good to hear that she was recovering, I wasn’t confident she’d heal all the way on her own. And we still didn’t know what else had changed with her attunement, unless she’d figured out more than I had.

It also reminded me of another question — how’d she get that contract with Seiryu in the first place?Had she gone back into the spire after getting her attunement, but before even coming to the academy?Or had she somehow managed to get a contract during her Judgment?It was worth asking later, but she clearly wasn’t up for talking. And honestly, it wasn’t all that important. I was just curious.

I’m not ashamed to say that I took it easy for much of the rest of the day. I hadn’t had a chance to just rest in a long time, and it was good to finally have a minute just to breathe.

***The next week was the easiest I could remember in what felt like ages. We had to study for the last few final examinations, but none of the other classes worried me to the extent that the dueling class had.

Aside from studying, I spent a lot more time training with Marissa and Keras. I used some of that training to try to improve my use of Haste, but even after another week, my coordination was still too poor to use it for moving around rapidly.

It did work for rapid attacks like how I’d used it against Marissa, but only for a couple seconds, or I’d get too dizzy and lose my focus afterward.

My biggest project was finishing up the replica of Dawnbringer with helpfrom Keras and Derek. We did it over the course of a few days so I wouldn’t strain my hand further.

When I finally presented the finished product to Patrick, he lifted it and gazed at it with awe. The silvery blade, etched with golden script, glimmered brightly even in the indoor light. “It’s amazing. I love it. Thank you!”

I grinned. “Glad you like it. Keras said we should tell him when you’re ready to test it out.”

“Does it work like the real Dawnbringer?”

I shrugged. “No idea. The runes I put on it are just for storing and replenishing mana, and for making sure it doesn’t overflow and explode. They don’t actually do anything.”

I pointed at the strange rune Keras had put on it. “That thing is what’s supposed to give it the actual functions. It’s not a traditional rune like Enchanters use — as far as I can tell, it’s more like a contract that Sera makes with a monster, but on a sword. Keras has been funneling mana into it for days, but he hasn’t told me what the functions of it are.”

“Huh. Do you think he’s really seen the real Dawnbringer?”

“Wouldn’t be surprised, given how powerful he is. We can ask him about it sometime.” I paused for a moment, considering. “You’re pretty familiar with the stories about the Six Sacred Swords, right?”

“Of course! They’re my absolute favorite swords. What do you want to know?” He turned away from me, testing the weight of the sword and making a few tentative swings in the air.

I was familiar with a lot of stories about the Six Sacred Swords, but they were just that — stories. Most of them were things I’d heard as a child. I’d never made an academic study of them. I knew legendary monsters and items were something of a hobby for Patrick, though, and maybe he had more reliable knowledge.

I tapped the hilt of the sword at my side. “Do you think there’s any chance Selys-Lyann is one of the six? I know the swords go by different names in different stories. I think Flowbreaker was supposed to be a water or ice sword.”

He lowered his sword and furrowed his brow. “Yeah, Flowbreaker is ice.

But I don’t think that’s your sword. I mean, you’re right, there are a lot of different stories. But they almost always talk about Flowbreaker being destroyed.”

I remembered hearing about that, too, but I’d considered it. “When I first found this, it looked rusted. It was inside a pillar of ice. The Voice of the Tower did something with it that repaired it.”

“Still don’t think it’s the same sword. It wouldn’t have been just rusted — Flowbreaker was broken in pieces, and those pieces were scattered all over the continent. Flowbreaker did make ice that grows on its own, though.

Maybe they’re related somehow?”

I nodded. “Yeah, that’s possible. Thanks.”

“Sure! Let me know if you want to know more about the swords sometime.”

“I will.”

There was someone that would have more information, but I wasn’t willing to ask.

Not until Tristan answered so many other, more important questions.

***After we’d finished the Dawnbringer replica, I approached Keras about something I’d been considering for a while.

“What are the odds I could convince you to help me make a whole bunch of magical items?”

Keras shook his head. “Can’t.”

Not the answer I was hoping for. My chances of making a simply absurd amount of money by selling high powered magical items were diminishing. “Can’t? It didn’t seem like investing the mana in the runes was causing you any difficulty.”

“That’s not the hard part.” He folded his hands together. “You saw the rune I created on the sword before we started to work on it?”

I nodded. “Yeah, you mentioned it’s how you’re actually giving the weapon any functions. Given that you spent so much more time on it, I assumed it was more mana intensive, but I figured we could skip that if we just used conventional function runes.”

“Wouldn’t work. If I tried to enchant something else,” he waved to the sword at my hip, “I’d break it. That wasn’t a standard rune, it was more like one of Sera’s or Derek’s contracts. While I was working on the sword, it was bound to me. That prevented my shroud from damaging it during the process.”

That made some degree of sense. Sera’s contracts were able to transfer mana safely between herself and a monster, like Vanniv or Seiryu. If Keras’ contracts worked similarly, it stood to reason that he could invest mana into a contracted weapon without causing it harm, and... “Does that imply that you’re able to draw power from the weapons you’ve bound as well?”

He shifted awkwardly, turning his head to the side. “I’d rather not say too much on the subject, but yes.”

Huh. Sensitive subject, apparently.

That was fine, I had other avenues of questioning that were more pressing. “Okay, then. So, you need to bind an item to be able to enchant it safely. Can’t you just bind whatever we’re working on?”

“In theory, yes. I already have a number of contracted items, however, and they each use up a bit of my power. I’m near the limit I can handle without reducing my fighting abilities significantly.”

Just like Summoner contracts use up some of Sera’s mana. That was a problem, but it seemed easily solvable. “If the goal is to enchant an item, though, couldn’t you just break the contract afterward? Would the item lose the power if you did?”

“Yes, I can break my contract and leave the mana in the item intact.

There’s a problem, though. Binding spells use something more valuable than mana. That’s true for me, and it’s true for people like Sera as well.”

I frowned. “What else would you be using?” He patted his chest. “A fraction of our spirit.”

“Spirit?” I sounded a little more incredulous than I would have liked. “The Summoner attunement doesn’t have access to spirit magic. It’s just air and transference. And even the combination of those two types isn’t spirit.”

“Attunements have a lot more magic in them than the two types they let you cast. You’ve heard that higher level attuned get a third magic type?”

I saw where his logic was going. “Yeah. Which implies there’s another function on there, it’s just not active until your mana reaches a certain level.”

“Right. And how does the attunement know how much mana you have?” “You’re implying all attunements have a mana detection function, whichmeans they all have some amount of mental mana.” I thought about that. “And any number of other enchantments we don’t think about, because they’re not actively giving us mana to work with.”

That was kind of a terrifying idea, actually. It meant that I had any number of unidentified enchantment functions built into a mark on my head.

What if one of them was some kind of enchantment that allowed a visage remotely cause the attunement to detonate?I didn’t like the sound of that at all.

I consoled myself with the fact that humans had apparently figured out how to make artificial attunements, which meant that someone out there had a strong enough understanding of how they worked that they probably would have caught onto a hidden “kill” enchantment.

Probably.

I was already planning to study artificial attunements extensively, but this conversation pushed it higher on my list. I couldn’t study much here, though— no experts were available. I’d need to either track Tristan or Katashi down, or go all the way to Caelford.

“Right. Your attunements are complex, and each one looks to be designed a little differently. The bindings Sera and Derek use create a bond between the spirit of a human and the spirit of a monster, which enables them to transfer mana back and forth.”

“Okay, I get that. But what about a sword? That shouldn’t have a spirit to work with.”

“Right. Most of them don’t, which is the problem. That means I have to give the sword a piece of my spirit in order to make the connection. As I’m sure you understand, that’s not something I can do routinely.”

“...Does the piece of spirit you’re using on the contract grow back?” “Eventually, but it takes a while. And I don’t exactly like leaving pieces ofmy spirit lying around. That’s a dangerous prospect. Making a copy of Dawnbringer was a special case. I might be willing to work on other special cases now and again, but I need time to recover first. Weeks, at least, if not months.”

I shivered at the image. I wasn’t sure I’d be willing to cut off a piece of my spirit and put it in an item at all, under any circumstances. I certainly wasn’t going to blame Keras for not wanting to do it regularly. “Okay, let me think for a minute.”

Was there a way of salvaging my idea?“You mentioned before that powerful enough items, like the Jaden Box, might be able to survive contact with you for a long period of time. If weenchanted an item with defenses, like a powerful shield sigil, could you enchant it safely?”

“Doubtful. Transferring mana into those shells you use would require touching the item, and that’d put me inside the barrier. I’d probably break it as soon as I touched it.”

“Worth testing.”

It took me a few minutes to make a basic shield sigil, then create a container rune like one of the ones we’d put on Patrick’s sword.

It only took him a few seconds to break it.

Over the next couple days, I tried a couple more designs — enchantments designed to protect the object itself, rather than the wearer. I even had Marissa help me with one that used enhancement mana to harden the item, rather than a conventional shield.

Keras broke those, too.

“I don’t think this is going to work, Corin.”

He was probably right, but I was stubborn, and I liked the idea of a theoretically infinite amount of money.

The one with enhancement mana had lasted a little longer.

Maybe Keras could have safely enchanted one that had a Citrine or higher level hardness enchantment...but an item like that would have been as valuable, or more valuable, than the product we were trying to make.

I had another idea, though. “You said that most items don’t have a spirit.

Does that imply that some do, and those would be easier to work with?”

“Yeah, but you’re not going to find those just lying around. They’re rare, and bonding myself to one would be the equivalent of a contract with a monster — they’d have to agree to it.”

“What about that black dagger that disappeared earlier?”

He winced. “Wish we hadn’t lost that. I wouldn’t know enough about it to know if it’s something I could make a contract with. But yes, that was probably an example of a weapon with a spirit.”

“How do we make an item grow a spirit? Could we do that artificially, so you don’t have to use some of your own?”

“Most of the time, an item with a spirit implies someone did put a piece in there at some point, and it grew and developed into something unique. Thereare probably spells that make new spirits, but I’m not an expert in the subject.”

I’d have to find one at some point, then, but it was a low priority. Spirit magic was an entire field of study, and I wasn’t going to look into it for something this dubious. I did want to study it at some point for other reasons, but it was going very low on my list. I had more pressing concerns.

“Crystals.” I realized. It was obvious. “Hm?” Keras quirked a brow.

“You could make crystals, then I could transfer the mana from them into the item.”

Keras shrugged a shoulder. “Good idea in concept, but I’ve never been able to get that to work. Don’t know if it’s my lack of patience or how my mana works, but I’ve never been able to make mana solid.”

“Want me to teach you how I learned?” “I suppose you can try.”

A few hours of lessons and practice hadn’t produced any results, but he did say that using a crystal casing made more sense to him than the other methods he’d tried in the past.

It had taken me weeks to make my first crystal, so maybe he’d make one eventually. This seemed like my best bet, so I decided to wish him well, provided him with a set of practice cases, and decided to focus on other things for a while in the meantime.

The first order of business was trying to get Derek to help me with the same money making scheme that I’d been planning to use Keras for.

“No.” He told me. “Don’t have time.” “Fair enough.”

At least in his case, I got a simple answer.

***Passing dueling class had left me with a higher degree of confidence that I could pass my classes for the year, but I’d also seen how much it had helped to prepare in advance.

I already knew what one of them was going to be — the third attempt at the fake spire. It would be considered our final exam for Magic Theory class.

This time, I was determined to be ready.

Unlike with Teft’s class, it was clear that researching the rooms in advance was going to be considered cheating. I wasn’t against the idea of cheating a little bit in emergencies — passing was more important than following arbitrary rules — but I didn’t want to take the risk of getting caught.

And, more importantly, beating the test without cheating would be far more satisfying.

I wrote a list of all the rooms we’d seen so far, and drew simple maps of each.

We had a few specific challenges we’d have to overcome for each room.

The shadow monster, the fire statues, the false Tyrant in Gold, a sleeping dragon...

Those would all be tough to deal with in direct confrontations, if not impossible.

I spent some time researching magical items to help with those challenges, as well as some general ones.

I still wanted communication items more than anything else, and I spent some time digging into how to make them. Most of them were based around variations of Wayfarer spells, and many of the functions I wanted were higher level than I could handle.

The other problem was getting a communication item to send a message where I wanted it to go.

Most of them worked by sending a message to another item that was enchanted at the same time, similar to how Keras had described the pair of earrings that sent sounds back and forth.

That wasn’t very flexible, though. For any member of my team to communicate with any other member of my team, I would have to make pairs for each combination of team members, and that was both prohibitively expensive and time consuming.

I wrote up a rough design for a single item that could connect to five others by using different runes to activate different communication functions.

Unfortunately, the runes involved were too advanced for me to manage, and I didn’t have a Wayfarer friend to help me with them.

I focused on other items instead, trying to prepare a couple things that would both be useful for the test itself and for future ventures into the spires. I had limited time to work with, so I had to prioritize, but I was pleased with my results.

I wasn’t sure what my other final exams would consist of yet. I tried asking around, but the teachers were being pretty tight lipped. Apparently, each individual teacher had quite a bit of flexibility in choosing how to run their finals, as long as it covered certain basics.

Aside from final exams, we only had two real activities left before the end of the school year.

The first, I’d almost forgotten about entirely: Spider Division.

The second, I’d been deliberately ignoring as much as possible: the winter ball.

I briefly went through my list of suspects for spiders, but I hadn’t gathered enough information on anyone.

Roland missing classes was unusual for his personality, and it could have easily been because he was doing special Spider Division activities, but I had no evidence.

Jin was almost too suspicious, to the point where I doubted he was actually a spider.

Beyond that, I hadn’t noticed anyone behaving too unusually. I knew I’d need to make an effort to start investigating soon.

While the whole situation with Katashi and Tenjin was obviously a bigger issue, I still needed to make certain I passed my classes. I couldn’t help anyone if I was kicked out of the school and sent home. I was still determined to score well and get assigned to being a climber.

I checked Trials of Judgment to see if Tristan had sent me any further replies, but there was nothing new.

With worrying about Tristan deferred to another time, that meant I had to confront the one thing I’d been looking forward to the least.

I’d planned on willfully ignoring it right up until the day before, but Patrick never let me get away with doing anything easily.

*** The following day, I had a surprise visitor.

I was reading about artificial attunements at the time, from what little I’d been able to scrounge from the library. The publicly available information was scarce, but it was still worth researching.

“Your friend is at the door for you,” Derek informed me. “You know, the one who almost killed you.”

I didn’t have to clarify who he meant. “Thanks.”

“Just keep an eye on that one. I don’t want to deal with any more trouble than I already am. Understand?”

I nodded to Derek. “I’ll make this quick.” I headed to the door.

Jin stood in the entryway. He still had a visible bandage on his right arm, but aside from that, he looked reasonably recovered. He’d shaved and brushed his hair, which went a long way toward making him look more like typical Jin. “Corin. I’d like to talk, if you have a bit of time.”

I frowned, then pointed at the floor. “Leave your weapons here.”

Jin raised an eyebrow. “No weapons allowed inside?” He reached into his coat, removing the two pistols I’d enchanted for him.

“No, there are plenty of weapons in here. I’m just not comfortable with you carrying them.”

Jin’s mouth opened, then closed again. Slowly, he set the pistols on the ground without complaint.

“The dagger too,” I said, waving my hand toward it and ignoring the hurt in his expression.

He tilted his head back, breathing in slowly through his nose “Didn’t think you’d remember that.” He unbuckled his belt and set it on the ground. A scabbard carrying a dagger was attached to the back portion, where it had been concealed within his coat. “Satisfied?”

“For now. Come on.”

I took him upstairs, drawing a concerned look from Sera as we walked by her.

We settled in my room. I offered him a chair while I sat on the bed. “What did you want?”

“I know you probably still haven’t forgiven me—” “Correct.”

He looked irritated at my interruption, but paused only briefly before continuing. “But we’re still supposed to be on a team for the next fake spire test.”

“Skip it. We can handle it without you.”

Jin shook his head. “That’s not acceptable.”

I folded my arms. “Why? Aren’t you a Sunstone-level attuned? How is any of this even applicable to you? Why are you even bothering with classes like ours, at your level?”

Jin relaxed, seeming more prepared for that question. “I performed well enough in my first few years of service to Edria that I was selected to spend two years here as part of an exchange program. Ironically, my main role is to make positive relationships with powerful families here, mostly to help foster good relationships for trade and diplomacy. Unfortunately, I still need to maintain my grades, or they’d just send me back home.”

“I find myself lacking sympathy for your situation. If your goal was to make friends here, you’ve clearly failed.”

Jin’s expression sank. “Look, I know you’re still angry, but can we just find a way to take the tests, at least? You know I can be useful to you. We make a good team.”

“We did make a good team. At this point, how can you expect me to trust that you wouldn’t put a bullet in me the moment I turned my back?”

I didn’t think it was likely that Jin would actually try to attack me again, but there was still a nagging suspicion that he could. Maybe one day he’d decide one day that he needed to clean up any witnesses for his assault on Vera. I didn’t know if I’d ever get over feeling that way.

“I...never wanted to hurt you, Corin. Not physically or otherwise.”

My laugh was tinged with an uncharacteristic bit of spite. “Well, you did both. Congratulations. Now, are we done talking?”

Jin shook his head. “I’m serious about needing to take the exam. And I do think you’ll need me. They’re going to make the final one harder. And I know that getting good grades is important to you, too.”

He was right about that. Good grades were a key to unlock my future freedom. And I couldn’t deny that having a Sunstone-level attuned on my team was a benefit. “It’s not up to me,” I decided.

“Sera will defer to you on this matter, we both know that.”

I drew in a deep breath. “Fine. You can help with the exam. But you’ll be with me. I’m not risking letting you harm the others.”

Jin nodded. “That is acceptable.”

“Good. Now, was that all you needed?”

Jin shook his head. “One last thing. Have you, or any of the others, reported my actions to the authorities?”

I shrugged a shoulder. “I haven’t, and I don’t intend to. I don’t agree with what you did, but you’ve made it clear enough that members of the Valian government were deeply involved with starting all this mess. I’m not turning you over to them.”

“Good.” Jin let out a sigh of relief. I hadn’t processed just how tense he’d looked before, but when he changed his posture after that breath, I started to register how nervous he must have been. “Thank you.”

“You can thank me by performing well in the test, and by being honest if you come across any relevant information in the future.”

Jin pursed his lips for a moment, considering. “I can do that.” With that, I escorted him out of the house.

***As Jin had predicted, Sera acquiesced when I told her that I thought she should allow Jin to remain on our team.

She wasn’t happy about it, but she was even more pragmatic than I was. “If he hurts anyone on our team, I’ll kill him myself,” she told me.

I had no reason to doubt her sincerity.

***It was the twenty-fourth week of the semester, six weeks before the winter ball. The school year would end the week after that, and we’d have a few weeks off before being sent off to participate in some kind of activity before the second year officially started.

Assuming we passed, of course. If we failed out, we’d either be sent to the military or forced to retake the first year, depending on our performance.

Neither was an acceptable option. I had to make sure I passed my classes.

I also needed to graduate with excellent grades, because I wanted to be able to choose to be a military climber. If I passed my classes, but didn’t get good enough scores, there was a good chance I’d be assigned to a support division. If that happened, I wouldn’t have access to the spires until after I finished my service. I’d just be stuck churning out magical items for the military.

A total of two weeks had passed since the dueling midterm.

I had one more of my final exams during that time — Physical Combat class. It was pretty similar to dueling class, but without Teft’s eccentric puzzles, and we were only allowed to use weapons and martial arts. No magic.

I was fortunate enough to be matched against another Enchanter...and most Enchanters didn’t have the kind of combat training I did.

The average Enchanter didn’t have years of “training” with a duelist father to draw from, nor did most Enchanters take the dueling elective. They would have had the same basic physical training that the rest of the university did, but that wasn’t anywhere comparable to my experience.

I probably should have gone a little easier on him. Hopefully he had better scores in other classes.

With that completed, I still had a few more classes I hadn’t taken a final exam for yet. Aside from Magic Theory, which I was already preparing for, I wasn’t sure what I’d be up against.

Understanding Attunements was probably going to be a written exam, and I suspected Introductory Runes would be the same. I wouldn’t be the best in my class for either of those, but I wasn’t particularly worried about them, either.

Permanent Enchantments was a bit more worrisome. It was an elective, so I wouldn’t fail out of the school if I failed the test, but I had a feeling Professor Vellum would find a way to make me feel miserable if I didn’t get a good score.

Possibly even if I did get a good score, knowing her. I resolved to disappoint her as little as possible.

While we’d prepared for more exams, I’d finally gotten used to using my Arbiter attunement, both on myself and on Patrick.

Sera and I had agreed that using the Arbiter attunement on her was too much of a risk. When I measured her lung mana with the mana watch, it registered at 6/6. It was recovering, but very slowly. Giving her mana might have accelerated that recovery process, but we suspected it was more likely to cause harm.

Marissa was a lower risk, but I still didn’t understand the mechanism behind how Katashi had increased the power of her attunement. The amount of mana he’d given her was several fold more than I could, and I didn’t knowif that meant she’d have to wait several times longer before it would be safe to give her more. We decided it was probably safe to give her mana now, but it was safer to wait a few more weeks until after winter break.

In those two weeks, I’d made considerable increases to both my own mana and Patrick’s. My Arbiter attunement registered 106/106 mana now, and my Enchanter attunement was up to 78/78.

I wasn’t improving quite as quickly as I had when I was pushing myself to my limit, but it was still a tremendous improvement for such a short time period.

Notably, I found that repeated uses of my Arbiter attunement didn’t give me the same kind of lasting benefit I received the first time. If I wanted to be able to boost my mana faster with it, I’d have to figure out more advanced techniques, like whatever Katashi had done to Marissa.

Even taking that into account, I was still increasing my safe mana capacity by about one point per day in each attunement. That was about three times faster than I had been advancing just before going back into the spire, so it was great progress.

If I could maintain that pace, I’d hit Sunstone with both attunements within a year. That would put me toward the top of my class. Less than a tenth of second-year students hit Sunstone, and having two attunements at my age was similarly rare. Having both would make me extremely competitive.

I was basking in my own amazingness when Patrick rudely interrupted me. “Have you talked to Mara today?”

I shook my head. “We haven’t had any training today.” The idea of talking to Mara for other purposes didn’t even occur to me.

“She could, uh, probably use some company right now.” He gestured toward Marissa’s room with a thumb.

“...Why?”

“She asked someone to the winter ball and got turned down, so she’s a little upset.”

I could see that being upsetting, but I wasn’t sure what he expected me to do about it. “Why aren’t you talking to her? Oh, were you the one she asked?”

Patrick laughed. “Oh, good goddess, no. There’s no way she’d ever ask someone like... well, anyway, no. She asked Keras.”

“Keras?” I blinked. “Isn’t he...?”

“Ancient beyond comprehension? Yeah. He told her she was too young, and that he wasn’t planning to go to the ball at all for political reasons. He might not be running from the law at this point, but he still isn’t exactly welcome everywhere.”

I nodded at that. “Makes sense. I’ve thought about skipping it myself.” “Yeah, same here. But I think we should go. It’s important for makingsocial connections, and you’re a noble. You should be paying attention to that kind of thing.”

I shrugged a shoulder. I wasn’t sure I could be more apathetic if I tried. “I guess.”

“I know you don’t care much about that sort of stuff, Corin, but it’s probably important in the long run. Even if you don’t end up running the household, I know you like having influence over important things. Like the whole situation with Katashi. Making connections can help with that.”

He was right, of course. I just...didn’t want to deal with it. I decided to placate him, though, since it was obviously important to him. “Fine, fine. I’ll go. But I’m still not sure why you want me to talk to Mara...you aren’t trying to get me to ask her to the ball, are you?”

“I was kind of hoping you would. I think it’d go a long way to cheering her up.”

I folded my arms. “And you’re not doing it yourself because...”

“Please, Corin. I already got rejected by Sera. Let my bruised pride recover for a while.”

I rolled my eyes. “I don’t see how me getting turned down is any better.” “She’s not going to turn you down, Corin.”

I wrinkled my brow. “You think?” He nodded seriously. “Pretty sure.”

“Huh.” I pondered that. Did I want to ask Marissa to the ball?My feelings on the subject were...complicated. I was still reeling from what had happened with Jin, and I wasn’t sure I wanted to deal with another pseudo-romantic entanglement.

I certainly didn’t want to give Marissa the impression that I had a romantic interest in her. She certainly had characteristics that I found attractive, but not in a conventional sense. I admired her for being tremendously good in a fight, and for working hard to achieve that.

Marissa’s demonstration of loyalty and bravery when she’d stepped in front of Katashi was nothing short of awe inspiring.

But was my admiration for her a form of romantic interest?I really had no idea. I was still getting used to the idea that I could have any romantic interests at all. I still had no interest in physical contact, and I didn’t think Marissa would naturally pick up on that the same way that Jin had. Marissa was smart, but reading people and manipulating them was sort of Jin’s thing. That was one of the things that made me interested in him.

I did like the idea of cheering Marissa up and having company for the ball, though.

I never liked situations where I only had two options. I preferred to make a third.

And that’s why I asked both Patrick and Marissa to accompany me to the ball — as friends.

Romance was all well and good, but to me, having a good time with two of my friends was a far better idea for an evening.

They both accepted my offer. The three of us would make a great team.

And, as likely as it sounded, I found myself excited about going to the ball once again.

But first?I had more final exams to deal with, and they weren’t going to be easy.

