CHAPTER XIV –THESE TESTS ARE NEVER FAIR



Somehow, in spite of having actually fought one of my professors inside the spire, it hadn’t occurred to me that one might show up in the fake spire test.

Teachers weren’t exactly typical spire monsters.

Then again, the professors at this school did seem to have a bizarre fixation on beating up their students in general, so I probably shouldn’t have been surprised.

We paused in the doorway, hesitant. This was a bad situation for a number of reasons.

Professor Meltlake was renowned for her fire magic. Her surname was a title she’d earned by literally evaporating an entire lake.

The best way to counter that was ice magic, but even if Sera was at her best, she wouldn’t have been strong enough to do much against someone of Meltlake’s level. And Sera was still far from recovered.

This was going to be messy.

Sera stepped forward. “Professor, is that actually you over there, or a simulacrum? I need to know if we should be using lethal force.”

“An excellent question, dear. I’m a copy. But even if I wasn’t, I’d invite you to do everything in your power against me. A group of first-years isn’t much of a threat.”

That helped resolve any concerns about killing Meltlake by accident, at least.

“And I assume we have to beat you to conclude the test?” Patrick asked.

“Correct, Patrick. Unlike the rest of this exam, there are no hidden tricks here. You can think of me as a floor guardian.”

That was unfortunate. If there was a hidden trick, we’d have had decent odds of finding it with this group.

“Also, Patrick,” Meltlake continued, “no using the high ranked spells I’ve been teaching you. You’re not ready to use them in an actual fight yet.”

“Aww.” He frowned. “If you say so.”

Professor Meltlake clapped her hands, causing her fiery aura to swell out for a moment before collapsing back around her. “Well, if you students are done with the questions, shall we begin?”

Sera whispered, “Jin, Corin, go right. Patrick, with me. Go.” Jin and I rushed forward, then veered right.

Jin drew a pistol and opened fire while on the run. His bullets disappeared into Meltlake’s aura, and I saw no sign that any of them connected.

Sera and Patrick ran the opposite direction, and Meltlake turned to follow them. Apparently, she saw them as the threat — and she was probably right.

Meltlake threw a sphere of fire in their direction, which Patrick blasted with a jet of his own flame, knocking it back toward Meltlake. It exploded part-way, and I felt a wave of heat wash over the entire room.

Sera followed up by hurling a shard of ice. Meltlake didn’t even move.

The ice shard hit her aura and melted on contact.

Jin and I were safely behind Meltlake now, and I fired a few blasts from my dueling cane at her back.

The spheres of mana hit her aura, crackled, and vanished without a trace.

Meltlake threw a blast of lightning, which forked into two. Patrick’s aura shifted into a crackling field of electricity, causing the lightning aimed at him to rebound off harmlessly, but Sera took a hit. Cracks spread across her shield.

Sera folded her hands and whispered. “Child of the goddess, I call upon your aid—”

Meltlake slammed her cane into the floor, and the whole room shook. Sera fell back, losing her concentration on her spell.

I didn’t have my sword or gauntlet, so I just kept firing the dueling cane at Meltlake. It was ineffective at hurting her, but I had to hope it would work asa distraction.

Jin fired another bullet into her aura, but again, nothing happened.

This is ridiculous, we can’t even hurt her. Unless...

“Jin, can you do what you did to the Tyrant?”

His jaw tightened. “Just tried. The bullets are melting too fast.”

Resh.

Should I ring the bell and get Marissa?I shook my head, dismissing the idea.

No, she’d have to run all the way across the fire room to get to us, and she’s still probably injured. I can’t lean on her to handle this for me.

Shrouds are less effective at close range. If I had my sword, I could reach that far, but the dueling cane is too short.

I’d seen that problem solved before. Keras could form blades out of his mana, and Marissa had learned to shape her shroud in a similar way.

I still couldn’t do that. My shroud stubbornly refused to move into a blade shape, in spite of numerous attempts.

But I did have another idea, based on something else I’d seen Keras do, and one of my own older techniques.

I pressed a rune on the dueling cane, bringing out the blade.

Then I pressed my hand against the metal and concentrated. This was going to take a minute.

While I focused, Meltlake was beginning to attack with greater ferocity. She threw another sphere of fire, but when Patrick blasted it like before, it split apart into three smaller spheres instead of rebounding.

Those smaller spheres flew apart, then righted themselves and continued flying at Patrick and Sera.

Sera countered one of them with a burst of arctic wind, causing it to detonate prematurely. The explosion knocked her back, but she didn’t look hurt.

Patrick’s aura shifted from lightning to fire. It wasn’t as intense as Meltlake’s aura, but it still was bright enough that it was hard to look at. The other two spheres hit him dead-on, exploding against his shroud, but his own flames deflected most of the damage.

Most. I could see thin cracks underneath his shield. Like deflected like, but there was too much of a difference of raw power here for his fire to protect him completely.

I was surprised by his next move — he charged.

Meltlake threw a lance of flame at Patrick, but he side-stepped it, and the spear slammed into the wall behind him, melting a hole in the stone.

When Patrick came in close, he swung a burning fist at Meltlake’s face. She knocked his hand aside with her cane, then kicked him in the chest. He flew backward, a crack in his shield where she’d connected.

He threw a bolt of lightning at Meltlake as he flew back, but that just vanished as it hit her aura.

“Permafrost Cascade!”

Sera had finished her spell this time, whispering while Patrick had Meltlake distracted.

Dozens of icy shards appeared, raining down on Meltlake. She created a wall of flame in mid-air, interposing it in the path of the shards.

Sera waved a hand and the shards veered off of their path, flying around the wall and slamming into Meltlake’s aura.

I was impressed Sera had pulled off a spell like that. She must have gotten used to drawing mana from the rest of her body. Still, I didn’t think she’d be able to keep it up for long.

Jin immediately opened fire on one of the spots a shard had hit. This time, I saw a flicker of protective mana flickering beneath the shroud.

Good, that makes it more plausible this will work.

I raised my dueling cane, finished with the harder part.

Making a small mana crystal was easy now. I’d made dozens of both solid crystals and hollow ones.

I hadn’t really experimented with other shapes, but it wasn’t hard. I held the proof of that — a dueling cane, with the blade extended by two extra feet of pure crystal.

The real test was what happened when I hit the last rune, flooding the blade with mana.

Just as I’d hoped, it ran right up the metal and into the crystal. It still wasn’t quite as good as a real sword, but it would do.

Professor Meltlake was finally turning toward my side of the room, apparently having noticed that hit from Jin.

She hurled a sphere of fire in our direction.

Instinctively, I tried to activate the ring of jumping, but it was still out of mana.

Jin stepped in front of the sphere and shot a hole right through it. The rest of the sphere collapsed harmlessly.

Huh. Didn’t know that could happen.

I took the moment of apparent safety as a chance to charge.

Meltlake was raising her cane to meet my rush when Patrick threw a blast of fire at the floor at her feet. The explosion was harmless with her aura active, but the tremors caused her to stumble just a step.

That bought me the time I needed to close in and strike.

The crystalline blade made it through her aura, hitting her dead on, and then snapped on contact.

I saw the telltale sparks of damage to her barrier, then she waved a hand and I was engulfed in flame.

My vision was nothing but fire. Both sigils and shroud were protecting me, but the heat was so intense that they couldn’t ward it off entirely. I felt my skin crack and burn.

A burst of cold flashed over me, then the flames were gone. I stepped back, coughing from the smoke.

Sera was coughing, too, for a different reason. I could see the hints of icy mana still around her from the spell she’d used to save me from the enveloping flames.

She clutched her chest, and I felt a sudden spike of worry as I realized how much she’d pushed herself.

Meltlake must have noticed that, too, because she threw another wave of flame directly at Sera.

Patrick tried to get in the way. He failed.

The inferno washed over Sera, and then she was gone.

The crystal blade on the dueling cane was snapped too short to give the reach I needed to hit Meltlake again. I needed another plan.

Patrick was forming a sphere of lightning in his hands, preparing what looked like a larger attack than I’d seen him use before. I doubted it would work, but I’d have to buy him time.

I rushed to the right, trying to draw Meltlake’s attention. It worked. She raised her hand to blast me again, but I was ready for it this time. Haste.

The burst of speed took me out of the way of Meltlake’s attack, but it also threw me off balance. I stumbled and tripped, but recovered before I actually tumbled to the floor.

When I spun back around, I took a blast of lightning straight to the chest.

My phoenix sigil’s barrier shattered immediately, and I felt my shield sigil drain to almost nothing. Meltlake hit hard, and I didn’t have Sera to save me from another attack.

Fortunately, as usual, we’d all forgotten about Jin.

He stood behind her, dagger in hand, and stabbed straight at her neck.

Meltlake side-stepped the attack effortlessly, turned, and enveloped Jin in a blast of fire.

Addendum: Everyone other than Meltlake had forgotten about Jin.

He staggered, raising his arms to protect himself, but she continued the blast. I hurled my dueling cane at Meltlake’s back. The attack connected, but she barely reacted. The cane melted to slag a moment later.

And a moment after that, Jin was gone.

Patrick let out a growl, finally hurling the huge sphere of lightning he’d been forming between his hands.

Meltlake just shook her head and batted it aside effortlessly. “What did I tell you about investing all your mana in one attack?”

“Don’t do it.” Patrick shook his head. “But you also taught me the value of surprises.”

The sphere split apart, just like Meltlake’s had. Then, rather than flying toward her, the spheres each fired a blast of electrical energy from a different angle.

She knocked one of the blasts aside, but the other two hit her in the chest. I saw her convulse for a moment on impact, indicating that he’d done some real damage.

The spheres kept firing, while Patrick sagged from exhaustion.

I began to charge transference mana in my right hand. It was the last attack option I could think of, unless I wanted to run back to another room to try to get my sword.

One.

Meltlake waved her cane, and chunks of stone shot out of the floor, enveloping the lightning spheres. With the threat of the lightning attacks gone, she turned to Patrick. “Your control is improving — you couldn’t have managed that a few weeks ago.”

“Thank you, ma’am.”

Two.

She shook her head. “It was still a poor choice. You could have done more damage if you’d managed to extinguish my shroud, if only for a moment.”

He shrugged. “I thought a distraction was a better choice.”

Meltlake glanced around. “For what? Corin is unarmed and your friends are all gone.”

Three.

Something slammed into her face a moment later, snapping her neck back.

She staggered, then raised a hand to a bloody lip, wearing an expression of disbelief.

She hadn’t forgotten Jin, like the rest of us had. But she had underestimated him.

I hadn’t.

The moment Jin had vanished, I knew there were two possibilities. Maybe he’d been taken out of the match like Sera had, but he was a Sunstone, with a stronger shroud than any of ours.

More likely?He’d gone invisible, using the item I’d given him earlier in the year.

And I had a pretty good idea of his dramatic timing by now. Not quite perfect — I’d only been charging my mana for three seconds, rather than thefive I needed for full strength.

But it was close enough.

I lunged forward and punched Meltlake in the face.

She flew backward from the impact, and I felt a hardened barrier cracking against my fist.

Unfortunately, I also felt her aura of fire burn me as I closed in, and that ate up the last of my shield.

A moment later, Meltlake was standing again, and she pointed at me.

All I saw was a single line of light appear from the tip of her finger, aimed right at the center of my chest.

Then there was a flash of pain and my vision went white.

***When I reappeared in the waiting room, Sera was the only one in there. No second-year student to watch over us, and more importantly, noMarissa.

I briefly considered just running back into the testing room, but it was pretty clear that I’d be breaking the rules that way. And not in a fun, “Corin always breaks the rules as much as he can while getting away with it” sort of way.

I turned to Sera instead. “You okay?”

She nodded. “Tired.” She coughed, clutched her throat for a second, wincing. “Can’t talk much. Fill me in?”

By the time I’d let her know what I missed, Patrick had appeared. “Aww.” He folded his arms. “Almost thought we had her for a minute.” I shrugged. “Jin still might.”

Jin appeared a moment later.

“Or not.”

“She stopped holding back quite as much once we hurt her,” Patrick explained. “The attacks she was using at first were just basic stuff, like Quartz and Citrine level. I think we made her mad.”

“Good. That indicates a degree of success,” Jin replied. “I agree.” I looked around. “Anyone seen Mara?”

It was five full minutes before a battered Marissa appeared in the room, smoke still rising off her torn and burned clothing.

She had some sort of weird, unfamiliar crystal in her right hand. “Man,” she mumbled, “That dragon was tough.”

***There was an awkward pause.

Patrick visibly stared at the gem, then Marissa, then back to the gem.

After a couple minutes of explanation, we found that Marissa had rested for a bit, then run back into the test room once Sera had come out — much like what I’d done in the first exam.

Sera had directed her to the room with Meltlake, but unfortunately, there was a dragon in the way.

Marissa had then solved the dragon problem.

Unfortunately, that had left her too weak to do much of anything else, and Professor Meltlake had come up behind her and finished the job.

The professor showed up in our chamber a minute or so after that.

She was clearly uninjured, so it was probably the real version this time. “Congratulations. You have successfully passed your final exam for MagicTheory class.”

We let out a holler of victory. Even Jin looked pleased.

Sera broke into coughing again afterward, and I gave her a look of concern.

Professor Meltlake kept talking, though. “You’re one of few teams to reach the floor guardian room at all this year, and one of fewer to actually harm my simulacrum.”

“How close did we get to beating her?” Patrick asked.

Meltlake laughed. “Don’t think a busted lip is going to get you anywhere close to taking me down, Patrick. My simulacrum still had about ninety percent of her mana, and about eighty percent of her barrier left. That is not an insult to your performance by any stretch, however. As first-year students, you were not expected to be able to hurt her at all.”

I nodded at that. The simulacrum was probably at least a Citrine-level monster, and aside from Jin, none of us were anywhere close to that.

It definitely reinforced the knowledge that Derek had been seriously holding back when he’d fought us in the spire. That simulacrum alone was more than enough to beat all of us — and the real Meltlake was probably considerably stronger. A glance showed her aura as Citrine, but I suspected she was hiding an Emerald aura, just like Derek had.

“Given the difficulty of reaching the end of the dungeon, as well as your performance in the fight, I am pleased to give you all a rank of ‘A’ for your final exam. Congratulations.”

We let out another cheer, except for Sera, who wisely kept her enthusiasm subdued.

“Now that we’ve completed the test, can we ask you some questions about it?” I asked.

“Of course. But keep in mind that you still may not speak to any other teams about the test. Some people haven’t finished it yet.”

“Great. Now, let’s start with the dark room...”

We spent the next hour grilling her with questions about how certain puzzles were meant to be solved. I was surprised to find that everyone seemed just as interested in knowing the other solutions as I was. Even Jin had a question or two.

After that hour, Professor Meltlake smiled and waved. “I’m going to have to go — I have another test to run. If you have any further questions, you can ask me at my office at a later time.”

I nodded. “Just one last one. Did anyone do better than we did?”

“Not many,” she admitted. “But one first-year team actually managed to beat my simulacrum.”

I blinked at that. “How?”

“That’s confidential for now, I’m afraid. But I can tell you after the end of the year, if you’re interested.”

“Very interested.” I wanted to learn every trick I could for future tests and trips to the spire.

I wasn’t surprised that someone had managed to outperform us a little — there were hundreds of teams, after all.

But beating the simulacrum?I had to know who could fight like that.

I’d definitely look forward to finding out.

***“Hold on, everyone.” Sera stopped us outside the building, as we were about to split up. “Even you, Jin.” Sera’s voice was scratchier than usual, almost as bad as it had been right after her first surgery.

Jin was already ahead of us, but he still turned around and returned to the group. He shoved his hands in his pockets, giving Sera a look of mild irritation.

The rest of us just turned toward Sera, since we were already walking together. Sera was still having trouble talking, but at least she wasn’t coughing.

“I wanted to say that everyone did a great job in there, and we couldn’t have succeeded without everyone’s cooperation.”

We gave her a series of nods.

“Wish they would have let me use this. We might have done even better.” Patrick patted the sword that he’d fastened back on his hip. They’d forced us to hand over his Dawnbringer replica before we’d even entered the exam.

It was a little irritating, but given what had happened with Selys-Lyann, I didn’t blame them for being cautious with our magical weapons. I was lucky they’d even let me bring in the transference sword.

“You still did just fine without it.” Sera gave him a friendly nudge. “Anyway, I had a couple more things to say. First, I would like to ask you all to consider being on my team again next year, provided we all graduate — which I’m sure we will — and that we have similar tests next year.”

“I’m in,” Marissa replied at once. “Couldn’t hope for a better team.” Patrick gave a cheer. “Yeah! We’ll do even better next time.”

I smiled. “I’ll be here, obviously.”

Jin winced as all eyes turned to him. “I’ll think on it.”

Sera’s eyes narrowed. “Good. I would like to include you, Jin. But there is one more thing.”

Jin tilted his head downward. “Say it.”

She nodded. “You clearly already know where this is going, but I’ll say it regardless. If you ever hurt one of my friends again, I will personally feed you to Seiryu.”

He gave her one of his signature half-nods. “Understood. If that’s all...?” Sera’s jaw tightened just a hint. “That will be all.”

Jin spun on his heel and walked away.

Patrick’s expression sank. “Was that really necessary, Sera?” Honestly, I thought she was being too generous, if anything.

I wanted to trust Jin again. Working with him again had been fun. We didmake a good team.

But it was going to take more than just not killing anyone during one test to regain my trust.

“You weren’t there,” Sera snapped, tightening her hands into fists. “You don’t get to complain.”

Patrick winced and took a step back.

Marissa stepped in between them. “Hey now, Sera. Don’t bite off your hand just because it itches.”

I hadn’t heard that expression, but it seemed pretty appropriate.

Sera tensed again, then sighed. “Fine, you’re right. I’m sorry, Patrick. I’m just... He nearly killed someone. He could have gotten us all killed. You and Corin might be the forgiving sort, but I’m not going to just pretend we’re all friends again like nothing happened.”

“I’m not sure I can forgive him, either.” I folded my arms. “But let’s not have this argument. If we need to discuss how we’re going to handle Jin at some point, that’s fine. This isn’t the place or the time. We’re in public, and we can’t let all this slip out.”

Sera shook her head. “I said what I needed to say for now. Just know that I’ll be keeping my eyes on him. I know the reasons he gave you in the spire, but I still don’t think we know a fraction of what he’s really up to.”

“All right. If that’s done, then, why don’t we get some eats?” Marissa snagged Sera by the arm. “Nothing like punching a dragon to get my stomach rumbling.”

Patrick laughed. “You’d probably eat the dragon if it was real.” “What, wouldn’t you? Bet it’d give me magic powers or something.

Wasn’t there a story like that?”

“They say that’s how the Blackstone Bandit got so strong. C’mon, I’ll tell you about it on the way to the dining hall.”

Mara frowned. “Don’t you mean the Blackstone Assassin?”

“Naw, totally different. This guy is real — just saw him in the papers recently. Robbed a casino blind just a few weeks ago!”

Patrick continued to regale us with dubious tales of the Blackstone Bandit’s exploits all the way to the dining hall...and through much of lunch, too.

***Later in that evening, I overheard Sera having a conversation with Keras back at Derek’s manor.

“...Sounds too dangerous. Especially in your condition.” That was Keras’ voice.

“Might be just the thing I need to get my edge back, though. You sure you don’t want to try?”

“Definitely not yet. I’m sorry. The risks are too high. We can talk about it when you hit Sunstone or Citrine.”

“Bah.”

I found the two of them inside Derek’s training room, which we virtually never used, since the rooftop had turned into our de facto location for sparring.

Still, the training room had its uses — most notably two training dummies that had powerful magical shields. The walls were, of course, also shielded.

I waved when I walked in. “What was that all about?”

“We were, um, just talking about Ceris.” Sera’s voice sounded pretty rough again, and that worried me, but I didn’t say anything. I didn’t want to come across as nagging.

In the back of my mind, though, I was making plans for heading to Vanreach Peak at some point in the future. Sheridan’s treatment had helped, but it clearly hadn’t solved the problem entirely.

Sera raised the crystalline sword. From her stumbling over her words and Keras’ dubious expression, I could tell that the sword was definitely not what they had been talking about.

I decided not to push, both because she was clearly uncomfortable, and because Ceris was an interesting topic in itself. She’d had it for several weeks now, but I hadn’t seen her experiment with it much yet — presumably because she didn’t have enough mana to make it work. Either that, or she’djust been training in private.

Ceris was a legendary weapon, the personal sword of Katashi himself.

Unlike the Six Sacred Swords, it wasn’t forged for mortal use — rather, it was an instrument wielded by the visage himself, supposedly for his battles against the Children of the Tyrant. They were the only living beings, aside from the Tyrant himself and the god beasts, that were thought to rival the visages in power.

If what Keras had told me earlier was true, some of those children might even be more powerful than an individual visage — which explained why even a visage might need a powerful weapon.

There were other legendary beings that might have been similarly dangerous — the old gods that had supposedly died, and monsters and servants they’d left behind. But as far as I knew, none of those were on this continent — they’d be back in the old lands that our people had left behind during the great exodus to Kaldwyn hundreds of years ago.

Because Ceris was used by a visage, however, legends about it were...varied. Some of them were clearly nonsense, like that Ceris was forged from the heart of another world that had died long ago. Others were a little more plausible; some said that it had once been used by one of the ancient gods who had died in battle against the Tyrant.

In terms of the sword’s actual capabilities, I knew even less.

I waved a hand at Ceris. “I’ve heard the stories about it, of course, but how’s it actually work?”

“We’ve been trying to figure that out.” Sera snapped back to her normal demeanor, tilting the sword sideways. The weapon’s entire blade was made out of some sort of blue crystal.

There were no visible runes on the surface, but I could see some kind of mana swirling around inside the crystal, even without my attunement active.

“What’ve you learned so far?”

Sera turned toward one of the combat dummies. “Here, watch.” She slashed the dummy, and I saw a flicker of energy as it impacted against a shield. Nothing else happened.

I folded my arms. “So, it can be used to...hit things. That’s very impressive, Sera. Truly, it is a blade without equal.”

Sera turned back my way and rolled her eyes. Sighing, she said, “Pay a little more attention, will you? Here, I’ll make it easier. Keras, if you would?”

Keras held up a hand, conjuring a ball of fire and hurling it at Sera before I could react. I had a moment of fear and alarm before Sera raised Ceris to intercept the blast.

What happened next was peculiar. She didn’t cleave the fireball in half like I might have expected Keras to; instead, the sword flashed for an instant and then the ball of fire distorted, seeming to stretch out toward the blade. When the flames reached the crystalline surface, they vanished entirely.

A moment later, the inside of the crystal was swirling with crimson mana.

As I processed what had just happened, she turned and swung the sword at the dummy again. Flames burst across the dummy’s surface as the blade made contact, leaving wide cracks in the protective shield.

Sera was grinning as she turned back toward me. “Get it now?”

I nodded, impressed. “It absorbs and discharges mana. How do you make it work?”

“I just think about the spell that I want to absorb and it pulls it toward the blade, then absorbs it. The range seems to be about ten feet, and it isn’t automatic. I have to mentally command the sword to do it.”

I rubbed my chin. “The fact that it can read your intent is interesting — that’s a pretty sophisticated enchantment. How do you discharge the stored mana?”

“By hitting something. That doesn’t seem to require any special effort, just a certain amount of pressure on the impact. Means I have to be careful — dropping the sword from far enough will set it off.”

“Can it absorb more than one spell at a time?”

“Nope. Have to discharge the last spell before you can store another one.”

That was unfortunate, because I was hoping to be able to mix mana types inside. Having a relatively safe and reliable way to make compound forms of mana would be extremely useful. “What’s the capacity on it?”

Keras interjected there. “I’ve been advising against trying to test that. If we hit the limit, the whole sword could explode. The last time I heard about an artifact exploding, we had to take a city off the map.”

I winced at that thought. “That’s...bad, yeah. But we really need to find out before she can use it in a combat situation, otherwise it could explode at an inopportune time.”

“Right, I’ll make sure we break it precisely at explode-o-clock.” Serafolded her arms.

I laughed. “That’s not what I meant. A powerful Enchanter or Diviner might be able to figure out the capacity. There are spells for testing material capacities, similar to what my mana watch uses for testing personal mana limits.”

“Thought of that.” Sera set the sword down on a nearby table. “Problem is that no one seems to know what the sword is even made out of. Thought the blade was just some kind of hardened mana at first, but it’s definitely not.”

Keras walked over to the sword and tapped on the blade. “It’s similar to a type of crystal I saw once before. It was a green gemstone with ancient enchantments. Unfortunately, I don’t know what that was made out of, either. Normally I can use stone sorcery to get a feel for the composition of most types of stone, but the enchantments on this artifact prevent me from sensing it properly.”

“That might block Enchanters or Diviners in the same way. Hrm.” I took a look at it with my attunement on. The aura around it was colorless right now, which didn’t tell me much. It clearly wasn’t just a Quartz-level item, so it probably used a completely different form of enchanting than modern ones, much like the Jaden Box.

“I’ll see if I can start researching spells for analyzing items. Could be useful, considering the number of magical items we’ve come across that don’t use standard runes. I don’t know if the spells will work, but it’s worth trying.”

Sera nodded. “Thanks.”

“Have you figured out anything else about it?”

Keras shrugged a shoulder. “It has some standard magic sword properties. Tougher than steel, but it’s hard to say if that’s because of enchantments or the crystal itself. It’s sharp, but nothing particularly impressive. Then there’s this.” He picked up the sword, then hit the target with it several times in rapid succession.

I could hear a faint ringing in the air each time he struck, with a slightly different tone — like musical notes.

I blinked. “That’s...really strange. Is it doing anything other than making sound?”

“Can’t tell.” Keras set the sword back down. “Might be some kind of vibration based attack, but if so, it doesn’t seem particularly potent. It seems to change based on where I hit the target, so it might also be some kind of information for the wielder.”

“Information?”

“I think the tone might indicate points the sword considers more vulnerable than others. If it was built for use against powerful monsters, for example, the tone might be useful for finding areas where scales are thinner, or that sort of thing.”

“Like knocking on dungeon walls to find a hollow spot. Huh.” I’d thought of some pretty strange ideas for enchantments over the years, but that definitely wasn’t the type of thing I’d ever considered. “That’s...weird, but I suppose it could be useful.” I thought about it for another moment. “Does it make a different noise when you have a spell stored inside?”

Keras’ eyes and lips narrowed as he considered. “Haven’t noticed a difference, why?”

“If the sword is about storing and distributing mana, and it also has some kind of weak point detection, maybe it can be used to detect for elemental weaknesses as well.”

“Not bad.” Keras tapped his fingers against the table. “I hadn’t thought about it, but that does make sense. I generally don’t bother with figuring out monster weaknesses.”

Probably because you’re so powerful you don’t have to worry about them, I realized with a hint of amusement. But the rest of us mere mortals need to strategize more.

“Wish we had an easier way to test that.” I finally said. “I could build an elementally aligned shield sigil, but it’ll take a while.”

I considered the idea of testing it on a summoned elemental for an instant, but then I realized that was horrifically immoral and dismissed it entirely.

Fortunately, no one else brought it up.

Another idea did occur to me, though. “Keras, what about that bond you can make with weapons? Wouldn’t that give you a better idea of how it works?”

Sera frowned. “We talked about that. There are some risks with trying to make a contract with an artifact with unknown properties, especially when we know at least one of them involves absorbing mana. We’re probably going to try it, but we wanted to figure out what we can from safer tests before we make a decision.”

That sounded wise. “Have you figured out if there are only specific types of mana it can absorb?”

“Seems like any of them, at least from what we can tell.” Sera formed a little sphere of ice in her hand, picked the sword back up, and absorbed the spell into the weapon.

There were a lot of possible applications for that. “Could you store a healing spell inside, and then use it to heal someone later?”

Sera blinked. “You want me to use this as a healing sword? Really? That’s your brilliant, non-standard application for this?”

“Hey, I just learned about it. Besides, you know that’d be hilarious.” I folded my arms. “Okay, better one. Teleportation.”

Keras whistled. “That’s not a bad idea, actually. Most people around here block offensive teleportation with their shrouds. But if you could get the sword to hit them directly, it’d be inside the shroud, and completely ignore that defense.” He glanced at Sera. “You’ve got travel sorcery. You should try that.”

She shook her head. “Summoners can learn teleportation spells at higher attunement levels, but I’m a long way from that point. Especially now.” Her expression sank.

“You’ll catch back up.” Keras patted her on the shoulder. I winced on her behalf, but she didn’t seem to mind the contact. She’d never been as sensitive to random people touching her. “Maybe Corin could help with that?”

“We’ve talked about it, and I don’t think using my attunement to strengthen her is a good idea while she’s still recovering. Overcharging her mana is what got her into this in the first place.”

“Agreed,” Sera added quickly, with obvious nervousness in her voice. “Maybe after I get back to the point where I was before the spire.”

Keras glanced at me, then back to Sera. “No need to hurry, I suppose.” From his tone, it was obvious he disagreed with the decision. He didn’t seem like the type to prioritize safety in general, so I could see why.

Fortunately, he didn’t push. He jumped back to the last topic instead. “Anyway, teleportation was a good idea. Maybe you can find some other clever things to store in there eventually. For now, though, it’s an amazing defensive tool if nothing else.”

That was certainly true — being able to pull a spell right out of the air was a great way to stop an attack spell without much effort. I thought Sera would be missing out by using it exclusively for defense, but she could make that choice on her own.

“I’ll think on that some more,” I offered, turning to head back out. “And I’ll get to looking up item identification spells.”

I’d already done a bit of research on the Lesser Identify spell, and I knew the theory of how to cast it, but I hadn’t practiced with it yet. Besides that, I needed a stronger spell to get much useful information.

“I’m sure you’ll come up with something that helps our enemies slightly less than a healing sword, if you try hard enough.” Sera snickered. “But one more thing before you go.”

I paused. “Hm?”

“I’m not just tinkering with a sword. I’m getting back in fighting shape in general. I appreciate you all putting up with my weakness during the last test, but I’m done with dragging everyone else down. Next time we have a group exam, I’m going to be the one leading the way.”

I grinned. “I’ll look forward to that.”

“I’ll need you to do more than just that. I’m going to need a consistent sparring partner.”

I frowned. “Why not just train with all of us?”

“I will to some extent, of course. But Patrick always holds back, and I can’t get as much out of fighting close-range fighters like Mara and Derek.”

I could see the logic there. Her attunement was built for summoning — which she lacked the mana to do effectively right now — and ranged combat. Training against melee fighters was still useful for her, but it didn’t let her practice her main skills.

Patrick was a better match for her, but I didn’t disagree with her evaluation. He’d want to go easy on her to avoid bruising her ego, but that would stunt her ability to train effectively.

“Okay.” I nodded. “You’re on.”

Sera grinned. “Meet on the rooftop in two hours?” “I’ll look forward to it.”

***Over the next few days, I spent a bit of my time practicing the Lesser Identify spell.

When I cast Lesser Identify on an object, another aura would appear around it that only I could see. Rather than demonstrating the power of anobject like a traditional shroud, the aura displayed by Lesser Identify was color-coded to show the highest concentration of mana in the object.

For example, when I cast it on Selys-Lyann, it showed a blue aura, indicating water mana. Or maybe ice mana. I couldn’t actually tell the difference, because both water and ice had different shades of blue auras, and I didn’t have a lot of samples to compare.

Because I found the basic colors hard to tell apart from composite ones like ice and lightning, I didn’t find the spell particularly useful. It was a good foundation for more powerful information gathering spells, though, and I used it as a way to practice using my mental mana without causing myself the intense distress of draining it continuously.

Once I was confident I could cast it properly, I tested it on Ceris. The resulting aura was pure white and sort of sparkly, which didn’t correspond to anything in my book. That was neat, but not very useful. I told Sera about the results and promised to continue studying.

Beyond that, I tested it on Trials of Judgement. I’d been looking for good ways to figure out how it worked, and this was my first real chance that didn’t involve asking someone for help.

Unfortunately, the result was nothing at all. No glowing aura. The book probably had runes to protect it from detection magic, and they were stronger than my spell.

I was still tempted to take the book apart to find the runes, but I resisted the urge. It wasn’t worth the risk of causing the book damage.

I looked up some more powerful identification spells, but none of the ones in the Quartz and Carnelian range were powerful enough to break through the book’s magical defenses, and they didn’t give me any more information.

I did find a Sunstone-level version that was just called “Identify”. That would tell me several more piece of information about an item, but it cost eighty mana to cast, and I couldn’t manage that yet.

I’ll get there at some point, though.

The more important discovery from all of the practice was that I could cast information gathering spells in general, even if I wasn’t a Diviner. There were a few things that required the Diviner attunement, like making memory crystals, but most of them just required having mental mana.

That knowledge gave me several new options to explore.

I practiced another spell — one I’d first seen when researching Diviners —and left the manor.

I had some tracking to do.

***The Arrow of Direction spell literally made a glowing arrow that pointed to my target. There were several variations, but I could only cast the most basic version, which lasted a few seconds. It also only worked on targets within a few miles.

Finally, it required a physical item connected to the target to use as a focus.

Pieces of the target’s body were best — blood, hair, that sort of thing — but something invested with the target’s mana would work as well.

In this case, I used a business card.

I didn’t find my target at a bar or a seedy casino like I’d pictured.

Instead, they were walking at a park just north of campus, accompanied by a small, intensely fluffy dog.

I found myself hesitating when I got a few feet away, uncertain on how to start the conversation. Fortunately or not, they did it for me.

“Corin, when I told you to track me down, this wasn’t exactly what I had in mind.” In spite of the chastising message, Sheridan was grinning brightly.

I waved the business card. “I figured the rune on the card stored some kind of information on how I was supposed to contact you. But I didn’t have a spell for extracting that information, and honestly, just using your mana to track you seemed faster.”

Sheridan laughed. “I applaud your corner-cutting abilities. You pass the test.”

I nodded. I’d expected that there was a reason the card didn’t just have an address on it. “I thought about just asking Derek where to find you, but I figured that would have been less impressive.”

“You’re quite right. He’d have sent you to my house, and I’d have to be more formal there. Hold on a second.”

Sheridan reached into a bag at their side, retrieving a small ball and tossing it in front of the dog. The dog rushed toward it, barking lightly.

The ball began to roll away on its own.

“That’ll keep Mister Eviscerator entertained for a while.” “...You named your dog Eviscerator?”

“Mister Eviscerator. The title is important. He’s very polite.” Sheridan clasped their hands together. “So, business or pleasure?”

That sounded like a trap question. “Maybe a little bit of both? It would be a pleasure to do business with you.”

Sheridan chuckled again. “I’ll give you credit for the effort, but your intentions are obvious. We can keep it professional today. What do you need? Sera doing okay?”

I nodded. “She seems to be recovering fine. That’s not what I’m here about right now.”

Sheridan expression shifted for a moment, giving me a hint that s my answer had been unexpected. “Good, good. What can I help you with, then?”

“I need information. Hard to get information.”

“Well, then you came to the right place, assuming you can afford it. Let’s go have a seat, shall we?” Sheridan glanced back toward Mister Eviscerator, who was still chasing the rolling ball, and then led me toward a nearby park bench.

There were other people in the park — mostly students, and a few other local civilians — but no one that looked to be close enough to overhear our conversation.

“So, what do you want to know about?”

Everything. But I can’t afford to ask about everything I want to know. I’m going to have to get some of my answers from cheaper sources.

“A few subjects. Some we might not be able to discuss in public.”

I glanced around again, but there still wasn’t anyone within earshot, as long as we weren’t yelling.

“And what are we starting with?”

“I’d like to know what you know about Tenjin’s disappearance.”

Sheridan raised an eyebrow. “That’s not exactly a small issue. You sure you want to get involved with that sort of thing?”

“I already am. How do you think I got my second attunement?” “Ooh, fascinating.” Sheridan folded their arms. “Okay, I’ll do a pureinformation trade for a bit about that. Elaborate about your Arbiter attunement, and I’ll tell you a bit of what I know.”

I nodded. It was a better trade than I would have hoped for. I wasn’t sure Icould trust Sheridan, but there were enough people who knew what had happened with Katashi that I didn’t think this was a particularly difficult secret to discover without my help. Especially for someone with Sheridan’s apparent resources.

“So, remember that time when Mizuchi attacked everyone outside the spire a little while ago...?”

I summarized what had happened with getting my brand, then retrieving “someone” for Katashi and bringing them to the spire. I didn’t tell Sheridan about Vera’s identity or what happened with Orden’s betrayal. If information had a price, I could sell that later.

“Based on your account,” Sheridan began, “I think you would be better off asking me a different question. You most likely know more about Tenjin’s situation than I do.”

I frowned. “I assumed that kind of thing would be your area of expertise.

Forbidden knowledge and such.”

“Not everyone who deals in information has the same focus. ‘Forbidden knowledge’ is a very broad subject matter. I happen to deal primarily in forbidden magical knowledge, as opposed to political secrets, the affairs of the gods, and that sort of thing.”

That definitely limited my avenues of conversation, but it did provide me with a better idea of what I should be asking about. “Okay. More specific question, then. Are you working with my brother, Tristan, on whatever he’s been up to?”

“No.”

“Just ‘no’?”

“You’re asking because of my sister’s dealings, I assume?” I nodded. “And because of your association with Wydd.”

“Ah.” Sheridan smiled. “You gave away something you shouldn’t have there. I wasn’t aware your brother had an association with Wydd.”

“I just assumed...”

“That people who work for Wydd would be aware of each other? That would completely defeat the point of some of our positions. We’re often asked to spy on each other, in fact. Some portion of any group entrusted with forbidden knowledge is going to abuse that knowledge.

“The fear that we’ll be discovered by one of Wydd’s other servants is oneof the factors that prevents those abuses. For all I know, you could be working for Wydd right now, and seeing if I slip and say something I’m not supposed to.”

“Wouldn’t you have means of identifying each other, though, in case you needed to share information?”

Sheridan waved a hand. “We have identification phrases and such, but that can be faked. In general, we simply report to our superiors, and they tell us any other contacts we need to know about.”

That sounded extremely frustrating, but I could understand the reasoning behind it. “Okay. Were you approached about working with whatever group Tristan is working for?”

“Ah. A much better question, and the answer is ‘yes’. I deemed the risks too extreme. As such, they did not tell me any important details. As I said, I likely know less than you do.”

I rubbed my chin, processing that. “Okay. Speculate with me for a moment. Who could be the mastermind behind Tenjin’s disappearance? Who would have the resources to coordinate an effort that could keep him gone for this long?”

“Without knowing where Tenjin is, there’s very little I can do to answer that. Ask something else.”

This wasn’t going the way I wanted, but I slowly nodded and considered. “What can you tell me about the Whispers as a whole?”

Sheridan shrugged. “Not much. For starters, there isn’t just one group of Whispers. They’re really separate organizations, each dedicated to one of the visages.”

“And you’re a Whisper of Wydd?”

Sheridan shook their head. “No. Whispers are secret. I’m actually publicly in Wydd’s employ.”

“What does that make you, then? A priest?”

“Hah! Not in the slightest. I’m a magical theory researcher. All of the visages have people like me, who serve in various roles without any sort of fancy religious status or title.”

“I don’t suppose you could tell me who some Whispers of Wydd are?”

Sheridan shook their head with a grave expression. “No. And before you ask, not at any price. That’s not the kind of information that I can sell.”

“Can you tell me more general information about their organization, then?Hierarchy, roles, positions?”

Sheridan shook their head. “Sorry. I don’t like being this evasive, but you’re better off asking an actual Whisper. And even then, they’re probably not going to tell you.”

I sighed. “Okay. Different approach, then. Do you know anything about anyone else who might be working directly with Tenjin’s kidnappers?”

“Yes. Your brother. But you already knew that, didn’t you?” “I don’t think I should confirm that.”

“Hah! Good. You’re learning.” Sheridan glanced over to her dog, then back to me. “If these are the only sorts of questions you have, I think we should wrap this discussion up. I’m not going to be able to help you much with it.”

“Okay. Something more in your area of expertise, then.” I pointed to my right hand. “I’d like to learn more about my Arbiter attunement.”

“Ah.” Sheridan smiled. “Now that is more my area of expertise. I take it you already know the basics?”

“Yes. I know how to transfer mana to others, either to restore their mana or exceed their current maximum capacity. But I’ve been thinking about the implications of that, and how they might relate to how I received my attunement in the first place.”

“In what way?”

“When I transfer my mana to someone, I can permanently increase their safe capacity, but only by a fraction. And I’ve been told that I can only do that safely about once a week. This is, presumably, because the body can only acclimate to a certain amount of additional mana at once.”

Sheridan nodded. “That’s correct.”

“When Katashi gave me the brand, though, it seemed to be storing a tremendous amount of mana inside. And I also saw Katashi enhance someone else’s attunement, increasing it by an entire attunement level. In both cases, that would involve an increase in mana that is much greater than what I’ve been told is ‘safe’ to give someone with my attunement.

“I considered whether or not that might be related to Katashi being more powerful than I am, but that doesn’t make sense. It’s the target’s body that is relevant, because it’s their capacity that is being strained by the additional mana.”

Sheridan’s smile broadened. “You see a contradiction. Someone’s body can only handle a certain amount of mana, but Katashi somehow bypassed that restriction in both cases.”

“Meaning that either he was willingly risking our health by giving us an amount of mana that would be unsafe, or, more likely, that he has a method to give people large amounts of power without compromising their safety.” I took a breath. “I want that method.”

Sheridan sighed and scratched the back of their head. “Of course you do.

Don’t you have any easy questions?”

I chuckled. “What’s your favorite food?”

“I said easy ones. Okay. What are you offering?” “For the first question or the second one?”

“For information about Katashi’s methods.”

I reached into my bag and pulled out the mana regeneration bracer. “I tested it. It works.”

Sheridan shook their head. “A few weeks of testing isn’t going to be enough to satisfy me.”

I’d expected that. I pulled a hairpin out of my hair and offered it to Sheridan.

“What’s this?”

I smiled. “I could tell you for the right price.”

“You’re cute, but hiding the value of what you’re negotiating with isn’t going to get you anywhere.”

“It’s a magic lockpick. Put it into a lock, it opens it.”

Sheridan turned the hairpin over in their hand, considering. “Interesting, but no.” They handed it back to me. “I’ll make this a little easier for you. Use your Arbiter attunement on me.”

“That’s all?”

“I want to know what it feels like. And it should permanently increase my mana, if only a little. That’s nothing to scoff at, even at my level of power.”

I nodded. Sheridan extended their hand. I removed my glove, took Sheridan’s hand, and channeled mana into them.

“Tingles a little bit.”

“Don’t move.” “Sorry, sorry.”

I continued concentrating until my hand burned, then released Sheridan’s hand.

“Interesting.” Sheridan flexed their hand experimentally, examining it. “Thank you for the experience.”

“So, what was the hidden objective behind that?”

Sheridan’s eyes fluttered. “What makes you say I had a hidden objective?” “Your personality.”

“An excellent answer.” Sheridan smirked. “And you’re right, but I won’t answer that particular question. You’ll find out eventually. As for your previous question, however, I can give a little bit of insight.”

“What can you tell me?”

Sheridan leaned back. “Are you aware that attunement designs have changed over time?”

I nodded. “There are different generations of attunements. Either the goddess herself or the visages are still improving them somehow.”

“Correct. One of the elements of attunement design that has changed over time is how quickly they can grow.”

“Meaning that it used to be harder for your attunements to get stronger?” “Mostly easier, I believe, although I haven’t studied the details of everyindividual generation of attunement.”

“But why make those sorts of changes? And if there are mechanisms in place for that, how do they work?”

“Excellent questions.” Sheridan retrieved something from their pouch; the mana watch I’d given them. “You made this little device to measure the amount of mana that someone can safely use.

“Every attunement has something similar built in. Or, several somethings, really. Functions for measuring the amount of mana in the body, and storage functions that determine how the values have changed over time. And also functions for determining the health of the body.”

I could follow the logic. “So, the attunement stores what your last maximum mana was, and continuously tests you to see if you meet certain conditions. If you do, your maximum mana increases.”

“And at certain thresholds, the attunement unlocks entirely new functions,” Sheridan explained. “Carnelian, Sunstone, all of those levels are mana thresholds built into the attunement. And they did not always exist.”

That was new to me. “They didn’t?”

“The first attunements just gave all their abilities to the attuned immediately. The result was a form of mana poisoning that was almost always fatal. Attunement levels and the safety thresholds for mana growth are designed to prevent that.”

“Okay, that explains a bit, but it doesn’t...” I stopped as it began to make sense to me. “Katashi didn’t make my friend’s attunement more powerful. He fundamentally changed how it works.”

Sheridan nodded. “I can’t say for certain, but that’s what I suspect. He most likely changed the values in the rune to say that she was ready for a higher level attunement. In theory, the safety functions in the attunement would still prevent it from flooding their body with too much mana all at once. Your friend’s mana capacity probably increased gradually over the course of several weeks at the maximum possible rate that the attunement deemed safe.”

And Marissa spent those few weeks feeling sick and under-performing.

Still, I knew a lot of people that would be happy to be able to have their attunement level increased rapidly without any significant effort.

There had to be a greater downside than I was seeing.

“If that sort of thing is a possibility, why aren’t all of our attunements designed to increase in power automatically by a certain rate every day?”

“Every time you cast a spell, your body acclimates to using that type of mana. Using mana types and amounts that your body has not acclimated to properly can cause your body harm. If your body had a tremendous amount of mana, but you had never used mana before, and you cast a spell that used even a tenth of it, you’d kill yourself. Because of that, attunements generally require a degree of mana usage before your capacity increases.”

“Why would Katashi make an exception, then, if it’s an important safety function?”

“He was probably able to evaluate your friend’s situation and determine that they could handle it. For example, some types of mana are safer than others. You can safely have — and wield — more life mana in your body than fire mana. If your friend was a Mender, for example, Katashi may have been able to increase their power with minimal risk.”

I nodded. Marissa was a Guardian, and life was one of her mana types. Her attunement was generally defensive in nature. It made sense to me that there would be a lower risk of damage from saturating her body with extra mana.

She also trained constantly, and it was possible her body was able to handle a higher amount of mana than what her attunement was giving her.

The overall answer made sense to me, but it was disappointing. It meant that there was no quick and easy way for me to just change someone’s attunement to Emerald and give them a tremendous amount of power in an instant, even if I figured out how Katashi had done what he had done.

Still, there were avenues I could explore with this knowledge. If Katashi somehow knew that Marissa could handle more mana than she was currently getting, maybe I could figure out how he knew that and learn to do the same. If so, I could potentially accelerate the power growth of other people when it was safe to do so.

And there were some other options I’d have to think about as well. “What about things that increase mana capacity without exercise, likelavris fruits and enhancement elixirs? How do they work?”

“I’m not an expert on those, but there are a few ways they could work.

Lavris fruits and similar foods probably strengthen the body in ways that help it tolerate more mana. It’s possible they also simply use up some of your mana in the digestion process, which would effectively be the same as casting a spell.”

Sheridan took a breath and then continued. “Enhancement elixirs work more like your attunement; they flood the body with mana. That can be useful in moderation, but as you’ve seen with your own attunement, there’s a maximum benefit you can achieve without causing the body harm.”

I rubbed at my chin, thinking. “Okay. But none of that explains how the brand worked that Katashi gave me, or how he changed that into an attunement.”

“You’re quite right, that’s something different. Unfortunately, it’s not something I’m allowed to explain.”

“You sure there’s nothing else you can tell me?” “Anabelle Farren.”

I blinked. “What?”

“Head researcher for artificial attunements in Caelford. If you really want to know how that brand worked, or how to give someone else an attunementin general, you should talk to her.”

That sounded like something that I absolutely needed to do, but that I couldn’t do immediately. Caelford was weeks away by train, and I wasn’t done with the school year. And even if I was, I didn’t find it likely I’d be able to slip away to Caelford any time soon.

Still, it was good to finally have a name of someone I could talk to. It was both a lead on how to research my own abilities and potentially relevant to Tenjin’s whole situation.

“Anabelle Farren,” I repeated. “I’ll look into that. Thank you.”

Sheridan smiled. “Good. Now, I think I’ve given you enough secrets for one day.”

I nodded and stood up. “Thank you. You’ve been a tremendous help.”

Sheridan waved a hand dismissively. “You were entertaining. That’s a good enough exchange for me.”

***After talking to Sheridan, it occurred to me that I still hadn’t heard anything from Derek about the other Theas sibling.

There was a part of me that was still tempted to confront Elora directly.

She was a key part to all this, but she was also vastly more powerful and influential than I was, and I wasn’t sure if I could deal with her safely. Things clearly hadn’t gone as she’d planned, and I didn’t know if she was still working with Tristan or not.

I decided to ask Derek first. “She’s not around,” he explained. “Around?” I asked. “What does that mean?”

“She’s apparently been in Dalenos for a month or so.”

I stared at Derek. “Isn’t that around when the grand cathedral in Dalenosexploded?”

I deliberately didn’t mention that my mother was also in Dalenos. This news strengthened the possibility that Elora was working with Mother in some way.

Derek shrugged. “That doesn’t sound like her style.” “But kidnapping a visage is?”

“That was unusual for her, admittedly. But blowing up a major place of worship seems too...messy for her. She values precision. Organization. Thekind of random destruction caused by something like that wouldn’t appeal to her.”

“But you’re not ruling out that she could have been involved?”

Derek sighed. “No. I can’t rule anything out at this point. I wouldn’t be surprised if it was a part of the same organization that she’s working with that caused the explosion, I’m just saying I doubt it was her personally.”

I nodded. “Do you have any way of getting in touch with her at a distance?Wayfarer, that sort of thing?”

“I already sent her a few messages. She hasn’t bothered to reply. She’s probably still angry about...well, lots of things.”

That was inconvenient, but I could work around it. “Okay. Point me to your Wayfarer, and I’ll contact her.”

“I’m not sure that’s a good idea.” Derek frowned. “If she’s reminded that you exist, that gives her a reason to start paying more attention to you.”

“Is that a problem?”

“You do not want Elora Theas’ attention unless you can control that attention.”

I twisted my lips in concern. I didn’t like the sound of that. “I’ve managed to keep up with Sheridan so far. I think it’s worth a try.”

“Deni and Elora are not the same...but it probably won’t hurt. Okay, I’ll give you some directions and write my friend a note.”

Derek gave me a letter, as promised, and sent me to a Wayfarer on the other side of town.

I wrote a brief letter, hoping it would get me an effective response.

Dear Lady Theas,Please forgive me for the unsolicited message.

This is Corin Cadence, son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran.

I believe we have both been involved in some matters relating to the Serpent Spire, and I would like to arrange for an exchange of information.

It is my hope that we can be of use to each other. Sincerely,Corin CadenceThe Wayfarer sent the message for a discount, but it still cost me more than I would have liked. I planned to get back to enchanting and selling goods as soon as the exams were over.

For the moment, I just had to hope the message was worth the cost.

***Two more weeks passed.

It was week twenty-six, with four weeks before the winter ball. I was far from idle during that time.

I continued training with my Arbiter attunement, using it to bolster Patrick and Marissa’s mana, as well as the power of my own Enchanter attunement.

Sera wouldn’t let me check her mana for a while, claiming that she didn’t like me bothering her all the time. When she finally let me check her a couple weeks after the exam, her mana registered at 24/24 — more than I’d started the semester with. I still wasn’t comfortable using my Arbiter attunement to make her stronger, but she was getting to the point where she was something closer to a functional Summoner again.

She still had difficulty speaking, though, and pushing herself always resulted in a series of wracking coughs. Sheridan apparently paid her a couple more visits and continued to help heal the mana scarring damage, but I wasn’t around for any of them.

My own attunements were still growing stronger. My Arbiter attunement was up to 121/121 mana, and my Enchanter attunement was at 90/90.

In terms of the rating system, that meant I’d moved up from Carnelian E to Carnelian D for my Enchanter attunement, and my Arbiter attunement was already at Carnelian C. I was well ahead of most of my classmates at this point, although I’d heard about a couple truly outstanding cases that had already gotten even further.

After I hit Sunstone, advancing further would get exponentially harder. The mana requirements for each attunement level went up six-fold for each level. People at higher attunement levels generally gained mana more quickly as well, but only a little bit, not six times faster.

If I wanted to catch up to people like Derek, I’d need to keep finding ways to increase mana capacity faster.

It was with that in mind that I spent most of the first week trying to make an enhancement elixir.

I had a unique advantage in that endeavor. I didn’t need a complex and expensive apparatus to purify my mana: my attunement handled that.

Unfortunately, that wasn’t the only difficult part of the process.

First, I had to figure out how to create mana in a liquid state. I’d gotten much better at making solid mana crystals, but making liquid mana was a slightly different technique.

I asked Vellum for advice. This was, as usual, a mistake.

“Oh, making Citrine-level potions now? Congratulations, you must have taken two years of potions classes and graduated from the university while I wasn’t paying attention.”

After a few more minutes of exchanging barbs, she made it absolutely clear that I was not ready to make enhancement elixirs, and that she was well aware I would continue to attempt to do so anyway.

She was right, of course. But she also wasn’t particularly helpful.

I dug into books for techniques on mana manipulation, and eventually found some practice exercises for making liquid mana that sounded doable.

The easiest was just channeling mana into a glass of water.

The trick was getting the mana into the water at exactly the right rate so that the water didn’t evaporate, solidify, or explode.

I mourned the loss of many cups that day.

When I finally succeeded in charging a glass of water with mana, the result wasn’t an enhancement elixir, or even a mana potion — it was just water with some mana in it.

Mana potions were the next logical stage in progression from there, and that involved mixing mana-charged water with specific alchemical agents.

Enhancement elixirs required pure mana in liquid form, rather than mana- infused water, as a base. After days of effort, I still couldn’t get mana to coalesce in that state.

And beyond that, an enhancement elixir still required other ingredients — some of which, I learned, were quite expensive.

That week wasn’t a waste, but it wasn’t as much progress as I wanted, either.

I switched my focus on the following week to something I’d neglected — life magic. Life was the secondary mana type for my new attunement, and I hadn’t done anything with it yet.

Ignoring a secondary mana type was pretty common for first-year students.

Marissa had barely studied life mana herself, and she’d had it from her Guardian attunement since the beginning of the semester. The primary mana types and compound mana types — like lightning, which Patrick could make from a combination of both air and fire — were far more popular.

It probably would have been more efficient to wait until my second year, then enroll in a class on life magic. But I had a bad habit of wandering into near-death situations.

I didn’t want, “Healing magic didn’t seem like a priority,” to be my final words.

In fact, I didn’t really want to have final words at all, unless they involved something like, “At last, I have transcended beyond the boundaries of my frail human existence.”

Not in a metaphor for dying sense; more in an ascending to a higher state of being sense. That sounded pleasant.

Unfortunately, healing magic wasn’t exactly the type of thing I could master in a week.

I learned early on that “healing” spells involved bombarding a specific part of someone with mana and guiding that mana to rebuild the damaged location. This required a high degree of precision, almost like performing surgery.

If I didn’t have a firm understanding of what the healing spell was supposed to accomplish, it wouldn’t work properly, and I could actually do more harm than good.

For example, if I found someone with a slice in their leg, I could use a healing spell to patch the hole in the skin — but if I didn’t know how the muscle underneath was supposed to be repaired, I could either leave it in a damaged state or heal it incorrectly, making the injury worse.

That meant my week of learning healing magic was largely dedicated to studying books on human anatomy.

The rest of it was spent on practicing the Lesser Regeneration spell, which worked like a weaker version of my ring — it caused the body to heal itself faster. It was much slower than a direct healing spell, but it didn’t require any skill to use, and had a minimal chance of causing harm.

I didn’t expect to get much utility out of the spell, since it was about a tenth the power of the ring, and about a third the power of the bracer. Still, if I was ever in a situation where there were more people injured than I had items to handle, it would potentially be useful.

Beyond that, I continued my usual training routines throughout the two weeks. Keras continued to work with Marissa and me on general combat, and I started doing some ranged combat practice with Sera to get her back into fighting shape.

When those two weeks were up, I had three final exams in a row.

***Understanding Attunements was, as I expected, a written exam. I suspected I got an average score on that one.

Introductory Runes was also a written exam. That one was considerably easier. I’d been terrible at memorizing attunement runes as a child, but that was because they never had any practical use to me at that age. Now that I was actively Enchanting things, I was learning runes on a daily basis, and memorizing them was much easier when I was practicing them all the time.

Permanent Enchantments, of course, was not a written exam. Professor Vellum never would let us get away with passing her class that easily.

“Ah, students. It brings me great joy to see so many of you here, so eager to display what you’ve learned.”

She wasn’t even trying to disguise the mockery in her tone.

This is going nowhere good.

As we sat down, I could see the nervousness in the expressions of my peers.

Even the greatest monsters couldn’t inspire fear like an old woman who was plotting something.

“Oh! No need to be seated. I wouldn’t dream of giving your final test in something as dull as a classroom. Please, follow me.” Professor Vellum stepped out of the chamber without another word.

We followed after her, most students mumbling suspicious comments to one another. I stayed focused, trying to figure out where exactly we were walking.

It wasn’t long before I knew. I’d already seen her with another class at thevaban stadium, so I shouldn’t have been surprised.

But the dueling class finals were over, so what was she planning?The arena floor was still covered with the same tiles that we’d used during the dueling match. In addition, there were two tables on the far side of the arena floor.

One table held standard enchanting tools, like etching rods and measuring implements.

The rest of them held a miscellany of assorted items: a vase, children’s toys, kitchenware... It looked like someone had dumped out a box of old junk onto the table.

And, knowing Vellum, that was very likely what had happened.

“Stand over here.” She positioned the class on the opposite side from the tables. “Good.”

Vellum folded her hands. “When this semester began, I told you this would be your hardest class. While the work up until this point has proven challenging for some, I was referring specifically to this final test. Many of you will fail. Most of you who do will feel that the test was unfair.”

I felt my jaw tighten as she continued.

She cracked a grin. “That’s because it is, of course. This is a terribly unfair test. Not quite as unfair as the spires, however, which is why you need to be properly prepared before you challenge them.”

Professor Vellum turned and pointed at the tables behind her. “Those will be your supplies. When I say to begin, you may retrieve a single set of tools and a single item from the other table to enchant.”

Some students were already groaning, but that part didn’t make me nervous. Not yet.

“Your test today is a simple one. Assume you are going into the spire with a group of climbers, and you need to prepare. You only have the time and materials to prepare a single item. Ten minutes after we begin, I will begin calling out the names of students, starting from those who have the highest scores. When I call your name, you will present your item to me.”

We were already standing, so someone waved to get Vellum’s attention.

Vellum ignored the student and continued talking. “You may not give me an item you already enchanted before today, or any other magical item for that matter. You also may not add enchantments to another item you already have on you. You must enchant one of the items from those tables.”

Her phrasing on that last line already gave me a slim loophole — I could potentially enchant one of the tools, rather than one of the objects from the other table. But I kept listening.

“You may only use the materials within the arena. You may not leave the arena to go gather more supplies. If you already happen to be carrying enchanting supplies on you, you may use them. Preparation is key.”

I heard several groans at that.

I had a few things in my bag that I always kept on me, but not too much.

My tools and a few mana crystals were better than nothing, though.

Beyond that, I did have several magical items I’d already made or purchased, but I wasn’t allowed to turn those in or modify them. I didn’t know if they’d be of any help.

I did have more materials to work with inside the Jaden Box, and the Boxwas in my bag...but showing it here would be a risk I wasn’t willing to take. “Now, if you have any questions...?”

Someone was still waving, so she sighed and pointed to them. “Miss Weaver.”

The student finally put her arm down to speak. “Um, can we work together?”

That...hadn’t even been something I’d thought about, shamefully enough. “Why, yes, dear. You can work together. You’d be surprised how few ofmy students remember that’s possible. Any other questions?” Another student waved.

“Mister Thompson.”

“What happens if we’re not finished with an item before the time limit?” “You fail, obviously. Anyone else?”

No one else waved. “Very well, then.”

I shifted my stance.

“Your test begins...now.”

I activated the ring of jumping three times in rapid succession, crossing the arena.

I was the second person to reach the tables, after a student who had teleported. Miss Weaver, in fact, the girl who had been so enthusiastic about working with others.

I found it amusing that she’d so quickly left everyone else behind.

Focus.

I activated my attunement, scanning the tables.

Just as I’d suspected, some of the random “junk” items were already enchanted.

Vellum had either put them there as ways for students who couldn’t enchant items quickly to pass...or possibly as traps for people who thought they could get away without doing their own work.

I opted for the cynical explanation and skipped the enchanted items, instead opting to find something with a good mana capacity — a plain metal circlet.

I couldn’t tell what type of metal it was, but from the color I suspected it was either iron or steel, either of which had a good enough capacity for my purposes.

With that in hand, I found a corner and sat down. I didn’t bother grabbing tools; I trusted my own.

I had a few ideas on what I could make.

The simplest option was to build a stronger shield sigil. I’d already built several shield sigils throughout the year. With my own improved mana capacity and two attunements, I could make something with a capacity at least three or four times higher than the phoenix sigils.

I also considered building a weapon. Among the kitchenware, there were some decent-looking knives, and the benefits of having a weapon in the spire were considerable.

With my new training at life magic, I was probably capable of making a weak regeneration item with just the tools on-hand. That was probably the most tempting prospect, since it was something I doubted anyone else in the class could manage.

As far as I knew, everyone else only had an Enchanter attunement, and thus no one else had the ability to use life mana.

When I thought about the scenario, though, I realized there was something I considered even more important than any of the items above.

It wasn’t possible to make what I wanted with just the materials on-hand and my own mana.

Fortunately, I had a solution.

I began carving runes into the circlet. Minutes passed, and I had to stop. I knew most of the runes from memory, but I’d never actually made one of these.

So, I took the return bell out of my bag, and I began to copy.

The jingling of the bell as it came out of my bag drew the attention of a few students. I ignored them.

“Ten minutes. Miss Weaver, you’re up.”

Resh, it’s been ten minutes already?I didn’t know how high I was in the class, but I had to hurry. I finished carving the runes.

Then, with the briefest of hesitation, I began to transfer the mana from my return bell’s runes into the circlet.

The rules of the test had been clear — I couldn’t hand in a pre-enchanted item, but I could use my raw materials.

And if I broke an item down into raw materials? That sounded fair.

Probably. “Mister Holt.”

I kept working. It didn’t take long to transfer all the runes I was planning to move over.

I didn’t copy the activation rune, though. I had something more interesting in mind.

I looked down at the floor, the tiles still etched with runes. Then I copied the runes that Teft used for voice activation.

There were multiple runes at work in the process; one rune for recording a sound, and another that constantly “listened” for similar sounds using mental mana, then finally an activation rune that triggered when the recorded sound was detected.

I copied all of them.

I didn’t have the ability to use sound mana, but I didn’t need to.

I just transferred the necessary mana right out of the tile beneath me.

Damaging school property for the test probably wasn’t going to get me into trouble, especially considering how badly we beat up the arena during the duels. Still, I’d fix it later if Vellum asked me to.

“Miss Winter.”

Was there anything else I needed to do?I began etching another rune. If I had time, I could give this more functions. Maybe build in a shield? The item probably had a high enough capacity for both the return function and a low-level shield...

I clenched my fist as I began to transfer mana into the first sigil for building a shield.

What else was I forgetting?I felt like there was something important... “Mister Cadence.”

I wasn’t done.

There wasn’t nearly enough time.

I packed away my tools, gritting my teeth as I stood. What else did I need to do?I was halfway to Professor Vellum.

I stopped, paused, and sent a flicker of mana into the sound-recording activation rune. Then I leaned down and whispered into it. “Return.”

I de-activated the rune.

If I hadn’t recorded a sound, the item would have been completely worthless.

I breathed a sigh of relief.

I finished walking over to Vellum. I was ready now. “What’ve you got, boy?”

I handed her the circlet.

She turned it over in her hands, frowning. “What’s this nonsense?” “It’s a return—”

“I know what it is. Or, what it’s obviously supposed to be. You tried to improve on a return bell, yes?” She folded her arms.

I felt pretty confident in my choice. “It seemed like the most important thing to have in the spire was an escape route.”

Vellum waved the circlet. “And you thought you could improve on a decades-old design, did you?”

I nodded. “With respect, yes. Return bells are still useful, but there are always places for improvement.”

“And how much have you tested this new design?”

I winced at that. “Well, I haven’t tested this specific—”

She cut me off with a wave. “So, let me sum this up. You decided the most important thing to bring with you was an emergency exit. However, that was boring, so you made an untested change to the core functionality of the item. If you made it incorrectly, the item is completely useless, and you potentially won’t know until you are in a life or death situation. Is that about accurate?”

I took a deep breath. This was not going well. “I have tested the individual components before, and I am reasonably confident that this method of combining them will work.”

She waved a hand. “Enough of that. Where’s your teleportation anchor?” I...hadn’t made one of those.

But I still had the one from the original bell, and in theory, since I’d moved all the anchor rune from the bell over directly...

I wasn’t sure if it would still work, actually.

I pulled out the anchor and handed it to her. She glanced it over, turning it in her hands, and then handed it back to me. “A standard anchor. Passable.”

Should I tell her I didn’t make it in the class?She has to know, doesn’t she? But she didn’t say anything.

“I...” I stammered.

“I’m not done talking to you.” She handed the circlet back to me. “I’m disappointed, Cadence. You made a number of mistakes here, not the least of which was your choice of item. I mentioned in the scenario you were going up with climbers — undoubtedly, one of them would have a bell.”

I started to open my mouth to object, but she waved a hand.

“Just listen. In spite of that, a return bell was not a terrible option — if you had experience making them, and the skills to make one on your own.”

“I’m not going to fail you for transferring mana out of an existing item for the test. Nor will I fail you for stealing mana from the tiles. Those were both valid strategies, and clever ones at that. But when you’re only allowed to bring one tool for something, it’s important to make certain it works. There is a time and a place for experimenting, but it must be done in a safe, controlled environment. If you had truly brought this item into a spire, you would have been gambling with not only your life, but the lives of others.”

I couldn’t help myself from interjecting. “I also wouldn’t have gone into a spire with one item.”

“No.” She shook her head. “I believe you wouldn’t. I’ve seen a number of other items you’ve built, and as we’ve discussed, many are creative. But your particular brand of excess has another flaw. As you grow more powerful, you’ll find that having too many items causes them to interfere with one another.”

I nodded. I’d studied that a bit, and taken it into consideration with the placement of my multiple shield sigils to make sure they didn’t cause any problems with each other. “I can consolidate down to a smaller number of items as I grow more skilled.”

Or, I could just keep storing things in the Jaden Box. But she didn’t need to know that.

“Be that as it may, this test was about preparing one item, not many. In that regard, you have failed. Not because you are a poor Enchanter — in fact, your item shows a higher degree of skill than most of the class. Your failure is in judgment.”

I winced. “I...see. So, I fail the class, then?”

She shook her head. “No. You fail this exam. Your score for the year going into this test was a ‘B’ average. I will give you enough points for this exam that your final score is a ‘D’. Failing you out of the class would only make you more likely to make mistakes in the future. And thus, this once, I will be merciful.”

I took a deep breath. “Thank you, professor.”

She handed me the circlet. “You can thank me by taking that to the Divinatory and finding out if it works. It won’t change your grade, but I know your habits, and I don’t want you using it inside the spire until you know for certain that it’s functional.”

She was right, of course. “Yes, Professor.”

“Good. With your terrible performance today, I expect to see you back in my office next week. We will be going over some fundamentals, since you clearly haven’t paid enough attention to them up to this point.”

I tucked the circlet and the anchor away in my bag. “I’ll be there.” “Good.” She turned away from me without another word. “Next... MisterWydmore.”

***I found myself slouching as I walked toward the Divinatory.

I’m such an idiot sometimes.

I didn’t even deserve to pass that class. I should have told her about the anchor.

Failing the test bothered me, but the worst part of it was that I hadn’t even admitted to Vellum that I hadn’t completed the whole item while I was there.

She had to know, didn’t she?I could...just tell her.

I failed the test anyway...would she lower my grade further?The dishonesty of omitting the information was grating on me, but I couldn’t stand the idea of failing the class entirely because I confessed a new bit of information, either.

Non-standard solutions were second nature to me. Even cheating at one of the exams deliberately didn’t really bother me.

But I hadn’t meant to “cheat” there. There had been no clever trick, no bizarre lateral thinking solution.

No, I’d forgotten something pivotal to passing the test, and I’d effectively lied about it.

That was different.

Did she know? Would she care?I thought about that until I was all the way inside the Divinatory’s doors.

***“Hullo!” Researcher waved. “You’re looking glum, Arbiter. Did you forget something?”

I frowned. “...I...sort of? How’d you know?”

Researcher gave me a sympathetic look. “Casting knowledge spells always takes out a part of me, and it’s awful. Especially the bigger ones. I feel so...wrong.”

Oh, she doesn’t know what happened. She just...associates losing memories with the idea of sadness in general.

It was probably a characteristic of her being a knowledge elemental, but in spite of the miscommunication, I appreciated the sympathy.

And, in truth, I didn’t really feel that differently. The idea of losing my memory was awful. “Yeah. I’m glad I don’t have to pay that cost when casting spells.”

The elemental turned away with a sad look. “I...wish I could get an attunement like yours, so I could cast spells safely like you do.”

I felt a pang of guilt as I realized I’d just inadvertently made her feel worse. “Sorry, Researcher. I wish you could have one, too...” I pondered that for a moment. “What’s stopping you?”

She turned back and blinked at me. “What do you mean?”

I considered for a moment. “I know you’re a summoned version of a spire monster, but couldn’t your original take a judgment? And if she did, wouldn’t you benefit from it?”

“They don’t let us take Judgments.” She shook her head. “Half-elementals, maybe. But pure ones? I don’t know.”

“Half-elementals? You mean...?”

“Oh, sure. There are some out there. But I’m not one of them. I’m just a Fragment.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. “What’s that mean?”

“A specific classification of elemental. Stronger than a Figment, weaker than a Gatherer or a Harvester. We embody specific principles of our element.”

“And you are...”

“I’m a Researcher, of course.”

I nodded. “Right. Help me research something.”

“Of course!” She smiled. “How can I help?I showed her the circlet. “I need to test an item that only works inside the spires outside of the spires.”

“Hmmm.” Researcher looked it over. “I see what you’re trying to do.

Return bells work by drawing on a specific concentration level of ambient mana. There are a few school facilities that are designed to specifically mimic that effect. You can test normal return bells or something like that in one of them.”

She gave me some directions, and I thanked her.

I turned the circlet over in my hands, still feeling weirdly empty. “Hey...Researcher?”

“Yes, Arbiter?”

“Can I just stay and study in here for a little while?”

“Of course.” She paused and frowned, maybe finally picking up something in my tone. “Stay as long as you’d like. Nothing makes me feel better like learning.”

“I feel the same way.”

My words were mostly true, but entirely hollow.

