CHAPTER XI – A PERSISTENT HATRED FOR COLORED

SQUARE PUZZLES

I spent the rest of that day studying alone and trying to get invasive thoughts out of my mind. I had too many doubts about Jin, about Patrick, and about my own priorities in life in general.

On the positive side, I finally found the time to start really digging into foreign attunements. I stopped when I found something that sounded fascinating.

The Juggernaut attunement utilizes transference mana to create powerful bursts of kinetic energy, allowing the user to move rapidly around the battlefield. Their specialization is converting their shroud into transference mana, which they can use to deflect physical attacks and smash through obstacles. This is difficult to maintain for long periods of time, so Juggernauts generally only shift their shroud for a few moments at a time.

The first part was how I was trying to use the ring of jumping already...and the second idea was very appealing. Most attunements had limited defense against physical attacks, and deflecting them with transference mana sounded like a perfect solution that might be possible with my own skill set.

I wasn’t sure if it would be possible to convert my shroud at my attunement level, though. Shroud manipulation was a Sunstone level ability for most attunements...but I already knew there were exceptions, like Guardians.

Maybe having two different Carnelian attunements that both generated transference mana would be enough to let me accomplish the same thing?There was only one way to find out.

I activated my Enchanter attunement to get a better sense of the mana flowing within my body, as well as the two shrouds around it. I could sense the mana inside my body easily enough, but the shroud was more or less invisible to me without my attunement active.

That was a key problem. I couldn’t feel the mana from my shroud in the same way I felt the mana within my body, and that meant I couldn’t just mentally command it to change into another mana type like I would with my internal mana supply.

Maybe that was the key difference between a Carnelian and a Sunstone — would I be able to sense my shroud as if it was part of my own body at that stage? That was an appealing prospect; it would make tricks like this much easier.

In the meantime, I needed to find a workaround.

The first way I tried to experiment was converting some of my mana from gray into transference, and then trying to push it out of my body, hoping it would mix with the shroud.

It didn’t; the transference mana just dissipated into the air.

I wasn’t surprised by the result, but I was a little disappointed. What else could I do?I remembered what Keras had said about his own shroud, which wasn’t gray mana. That was because a shroud was a result of the body leaking out excess mana...meaning that if my excess mana was a different type than gray, theoretically the shroud would be the same.

Could I convert so much of my body’s mana into transference mana that I was emitting a different type of aura?Testing that was a much riskier prospect. Even though I routinely converted a large amount of mana into transference or mental mana, that was in the process of expelling it from my body immediately into a spell. Keeping an abnormal amount of transference mana housed within my body wasn’t necessarily safe.

I skimmed my books about the idea. There were lots of spells that involved infusing your body with various types of mana, either to assist with healing, or to improve your movement, or that sort of thing. I didn’t see anything thatreferred to those spells changing the composition of the caster’s shroud, though — presumably because they just weren’t changing enough of it to have that effect.

Humans had a lot of gray mana, since that was our mana’s default state. I speculated that it would probably require converting at least half of my mana to change the composition of my shroud, and most spells weren’t designed to use up that much mana, both due to the dangers and the inefficiency.

Reading did remind me that Summoners ended up generating all sorts of mana inside their bodies from their contracts, though, and they didn’t generally suffer any ill effects. That helped me feel a little more comfortable with the idea of tinkering with my mana.

I decided it was worth trying, but in a controlled fashion. I converted some of the mana in my right hand into transference...and waited.

Nothing happened at first. I converted a bit more mana. Then a bit more.

I felt a slight pressure beginning to build, but I wasn’t sure if it was just in my head until the muscles in my hand began to tremble.

I held it just a little longer, watching my shroud...but I couldn’t see any change in the composition.

The pressure gave way to pain. That was a sign it was time to stop. I released the transference mana from my hand into the air.

The resulting shockwave blasted outward and slammed into the nearest wall. I saw the flicker of protective sorcery — the entire interior of Derek’s house was warded — otherwise I might have put a hole in the wall.

I looked down at my hand, staring blankly.

I can work with this.

The blast was like a much stronger version of what I usually projected out of my gauntlet. Unfortunately, it also took up a vastly greater amount of my mana to use. Probably close to half.

Ordinary spells were designed to consume just a small fraction of the user’s mana, because you had to be able to discharge that amount of mana instantly.

But, logically, if I could have more time to convert the mana before discharging it... I could throw a lot more mana into a single spell.

This wasn’t a unique idea: it was how all Heart-Marked Attuned worked.

The difference was that Heart Marks provided support to the body for thatspecific style of casting.

Without a Heart Mark, trying to practice this style had a clear downside.

My hand was throbbing. I didn’t think I’d done any lasting damage, but it was clear my type of attunement wasn’t built to be used that way.

I’d never cared much for design intent, though. The important part was figuring out what I could do with the tools I had — and how I could make new, better tools.

I rested for a few minutes, then I tried again, releasing the mana before the pressure in my hand grew painful.

It had the same effect: a blast of kinetic energy. It was little bit weaker than the last one, but still far stronger than a blast from my gauntlet.

Testing, I could expel enough energy in an instant to push a book around on the floor, but not much more. With several seconds of holding the mana in, though, I could easily push over a chair.

At that point, Patrick came by to check on the noise. I got a little embarrassed, told him I was fine, and decided to find a better spot to practice.

The roof was the obvious choice, but it was occupied — Keras was giving Marissa another lesson. They offered me a chance to join them, but I wasn’t up for that degree of social contact.

I went to the enchantment testing grounds instead, where I’d first tested the gauntlet. I requested one with a shielded test dummy, which the facility had several of.

I spent the next hour or two blasting the test dummy around the tiny testing room. It was surprisingly cathartic.

And, more importantly, it taught me a few valuable pieces of information.

First, I couldn’t generate enough force to push a human back with just an instant of mana conversion. After some testing, I decided I need to store up my mana for about a second to get enough for that.

If I converted the mana in my hand for about five seconds, I could generate enough mana to slam the dummy into the wall hard enough to crack the shield. I had to recharge the dummy’s shields every time I practiced that, though, so I didn’t try it much.

Anything in between would have an intermediate result, and anything longer would result in too much pain for me to use the attacks consecutively.

I considered if I could apply it back to my original idea of converting myshroud, but it wasn’t currently practical. If I could send out a blast of force, I could generate enough energy to deflect a blade — but saving up that much transference mana took too long. It wasn’t practical as a defensive measure.

If I practiced enough, though, I’d get better at using transference mana in general, and it would be easier to convert my shroud when I had enough power to make it plausible.

I went home feeling exhausted, but satisfied with the results, even if they weren’t what I’d been trying to learn.

When I got back, I focused the rest of the evening on more transference mana research. I read a little more on the Juggernaut, as well as other attunements that used transference mana, like the Wavewalker and Shieldbreaker.

There were some types of general spells that anyone with the ability to use a certain type of magic could cast, but as an Enchanter, my classes weren’t focused on teaching those yet. We were expected to be dedicating ourselves to learning how to make magical items almost exclusively, since that was the primary function of our attunement.

Normally, we’d start learning those more general spells next year...but now that I’d been practicing transference mana, I was itching to learn more.

I was thinking about spells that involved infusing the body with transference mana when I remembered one of my previous ideas. I wanted to learn to move like Keras did — too quickly for enemies to react.

I already knew I could blast myself around with transference mana, like I was doing with the ring, but I wanted to find a way to move faster for a sustained period of time.

I found multiple ways of approaching that.

Haste spells are designed to increase the target’s speed. They require tremendous practice to use, however, because they do not increase their target’s mental processing speed — only the speed at which their body moves.

Even minor speed increases require a period of acclimation, because if your body moves more quickly than your mind expects, this can throw off your balance. More powerful spells grow progressively more difficult to control.

Thus, it is advised that you train with incrementally more powerful Haste spells over a long period of time, and do not attempt to use them in a combat environment until you have substantial practice moving at that speed.

The highest level of Haste spells are generally only possible to use while supported by an attunement that can enhance the user’s perception abilities, such as the Spellsinger or Shapeshifter. This means they are often unused, however, as these spells rely on either having two attunements yourself or a second attuned with an emphasis on support magic.

There is no known attunement that generates both transference mana and perception mana. It is possible that these mana types simply do not mix naturally with one another. It is sometimes speculated that the type of attunement that generates this pairing was the Chronomancer, a legendary attunement that supposedly originated from the Spider Spire.

Because of the difficulty of learning to use Haste spells, the opposite type— spells designed to slow enemies — are considerably more popular. These spells do not actually slow the flow of time, but rather constrict enemies with a field of pressure which resists their movements. More powerful Slow spells can slow motions to a crawl or even paralyze them entirely.

Both of those categories of magic sounded extremely useful.

Also, I immediately wanted a Chronomancer attunement more than I’d ever wanted an individual attunement before. Time magic? That sounded incredible.

I read a little more just to try to find more about Chronomancers, but sadly, most books indicated they were nothing more than a myth.

Now that I knew Necromancers were real, though, Chronomancers sounded like they were within the realm of possibility. If they were another restricted attunement, maybe Sheridan would know.

Picking up a third attunement was probably a long way off for me either way; most people never even earned a second. If I wanted to take another Judgment in a different spire, I could do that...but Judgments grew more difficult the more Judgments you’d taken.

Since I already had two attunements, but I’d only taken one Judgment, I wasn’t sure if the tests would consider me to have completed two already. If so, taking another one would probably be impossible for many years. I’d heard of people getting a second attunement at around Sunstone level, but getting a third would probably require at least a Citrine level in both, and that was extremely difficult to achieve.

I pushed that to the side and spent the rest of the evening trying to practice a basic Haste spell.

The first step was very similar to what I’d been doing to try to influence my shroud; just converting some of my gray mana into transference.

There were two differences.

One, I was using a much smaller amount — only five mana worth, rather than the thirty or forty I’d been blasting outward.

Two, I wasn’t releasing it outward. I had to learn to take that mana and spread it out throughout my body, then infuse it into my skin, muscles, and bone. That mana would then naturally dissipate over time, since it was being actively used to enhance my body.

The process was, surprisingly, not that difficult. I had a Mind Mark, and that style of mark was specifically tailored toward easily sensing and moving around the mana inside my body.

It had never felt like much of a benefit compared to what some of the other marks were capable of, but I didn’t have the personal experience to form much of a basis for comparison. Maybe if Sera had my style of mark, she’d have found it easier to cast spells with something other than her lungs.

While I hadn’t had a chance to do much with it yet, having an attunement that improved general mana control meant that I was in an ideal position to experiment with other methods of casting spells. That was a potentially huge advantage in the long term.

My muscles tingled from the infusion of energy, but aside from that, I didn’t really feel any different. Not until I took a step.

That single motion catapulted me forward, sending me into a stumble that turned into a tumble. When I hit the floor, my body bounced.

When I finally stopped bouncing and rolling, I burst into laughter.

That was amazing.

The mana itself had been cushioning my impacts. I still felt them, but only barely. I did feel a little nauseated, though, from the rapid movement.

I tried it again. And again. And again.

I was a little bruised in the aftermath, but I started to get the hang of walking.

After about five minutes of stumbling around the room and running into things, I understood why these spells weren’t more popular. The novelty had mostly worn off, and it was incredibly difficult to move.

Still, I kept practicing.

By the end of the evening, I could perform basic movements with the weakest, Quartz-ranked Haste spell active. Sadly, I was still clumsier with the spell active than without. I had to deliberately move slowly to avoid hurting myself, and that defeated the entire point of the spell.

But progress was progress, and I wasn’t giving up easily.

I resolved to ask Keras for advice the next day. It was likely he could help me with making the learning process more efficient.

I still had a smile when I went to sleep.

***“Haste spells?” Keras gave me a quizzical look. “I don’t use them.” I stared back at him with a similar expression. “...Really?”

“Yeah. I know some people who do, but transference mana isn’t really my specialty.”

I frowned. “I’ve seen you move much more rapidly in short bursts, though.

How are you accomplishing that?”

“Oh, that? Hm. Nothing I could really teach, unfortunately.”

I’d been afraid of that. “Why? Because I don’t have access to the dominions that you do?”

“Precisely. I can infuse my body with energy from that dominion, and that vastly increases both my strength and my speed. It has a high cost, so I use it sparingly.”

“How do you cope with the loss of balance and coordination?”

He shook his head. “It’s not an issue for me. When I use it, everything around me seems to slow down. I don’t feel like I’m moving any faster, just that everything else is moving slower.”

“...Are you a Chronomancer?”

Keras actually laughed. “No, I’m not using time magic. I’ve seen a lot of strange things over the years, but that’s still one that I haven’t learned.”

“What dominion is it that you’re using then?”

He shifted his stance, looking uncharacteristically nervous. “I’d rather not say.”

I shrugged a shoulder. It didn’t really matter, as long as he was right that it wasn’t something I could use. “Is there any way I could do something similar,even if it’s not the same as yours?”

“I’m not sure. I’ve seen people here use similar abilities, like those Haste spells you talked about, but I’m no expert on the local magic. Derek would be a better person to ask.”

That was a good point, so I bid Keras goodbye and went to ask Derek. “I don’t use Haste spells, either. One of my bound items enhances mymovement, but that’s with air magic, not transference, so it works differently. Haste spells add additional energy to all of your movements, so you get pushed further every time you take a step, or that sort of thing. When I use air magic to increase my speed, it’s more like the wind is carrying me in the direction I want to go.”

That made sense, and it was good to know there were different types of movement magic available. It also meant that any training exercises that Derek used would be different from training with Haste spells, so he couldn’t help teach me, either.

I either needed to focus on practicing more myself, or find someone who actually had trained directly with Haste spells. Preferably both, eventually.

I spent just a little bit more time practicing with Haste that morning, but I didn’t make much progress. Hopefully, if I spent a bit of time on it every day, I’d both learn to master it eventually and increase my overall proficiency with transference magic.

I had breakfast after that, then headed to Magic Theory class.

We had to take a written exam — one of the first I’d taken that semester.

Fortunately, I’d always been good with written exams, even if I wasn’tparticularly good at studying what I was supposed to.

I didn’t get my results that day, but we apparently would be getting reports on our current grades for each class right before winter vacation, which was just a few weeks away.

After that, I had lunch, and then Mana Manipulation class.

Professor Edlyn was looking unusually serious. Maybe a little concerned?She had a large box on her lectern, and she put her hands on top of it as class began.

“I’m afraid today is your final exam.”

That was...not good news. I hadn’t been too surprised when Teft had run his final exam early, but I hadn’t expected someone like Professor Edlyn to dothe same.

I could see the other students tense, and heard a few confused whispers. “Please be quiet, everyone.” The professor began to open the box. “Whilenormally we would wait until the week before winter vacation for the test,we’ve needed to adjust the class schedule due to an unforeseen incident.”

What incident? Was she talking about when Mizuchi went on her rampage?Or maybe that attack on the grand cathedral in Dalenos?I wasn’t sure how the latter would have impacted the class schedule, but maybe the professor had family nearby that had been injured?The professor didn’t elaborate. Instead, she simply continued with, “I apologize for the inconvenience. The test will be a simple one. I hope you have all adequately prepared.”

She reached into the box and retrieved an object I recognized — a practice shell for making mana crystals.

“Your objective is to take one of these shells and to focus your mana inside, creating a basic gray mana crystal. You will have one hour to complete this test. I realize this may be too difficult for some of you, since we haven’t practiced doing this in the class yet. I will do my best to grade leniently because the test is being run earlier than usual.”

...I had been nervous about nothing.

I almost laughed, but I managed to restrain myself.

“Please form a line. You may each take one case to practice with. If you are capable of filling one in less than the required hour, you can return for another after you’re done filling the first one.”

I didn’t stand up immediately. I ignored the nervous whispers and complaints around me, waiting to get at the very back of the line.

When I finally reached Professor Edlyn, she handed a case to me.

I held it in my right hand, closed my eyes for a few moments, and then handed it back to her.

“Is something wrong with the case?” She blinked. “Oh, this one is already full. Let me get you another one.”

I couldn’t help myself from chuckling that time. “It wasn’t already full.” “What do you mean?” She dug another case out of the box, then handed itto me.

“Watch.” I closed my palm around the crystal, focusing my mana.

A week ago, it had taken me ten seconds to form a crystal of this size in one of the practice cases, but I’d been practicing making crystals of a higher degree of density in the open air since then.

I’d gotten it down to four or five seconds.

I handed the filled crystal back to her with a grin. “...Are you using some sort of slight-of-hand trick?” I grinned. “Nope. I’ve just been practicing.”

Professor Edlyn pushed up her glasses, looking down her nose at me. “Practicing.”

We were starting to draw some attention from the nearby students now, and I was beginning to regret making a scene.

But only just a little.

It was fun being ahead of the class for a change.

Professor Edlyn glanced me up and down, and I noticed her attunement mark was glowing — a subtle sign that she was using it to look at my aura. “A second attunement? Precisely how long have you been hiding that, Master Cadence?”

I really hadn’t wanted that to come out in public, but in retrospect, it was unavoidable. Plenty of people could see auras, and I had no way of suppressing mine. Maybe I should have looked into something like that as soon as I’d left the spire, but it was far too late now.

“I’ve only had it for a week, professor. I apologize for failing to mention it.”

My teacher sighed, shaking her head. “It’s fine. You’ve passed the test.

Congratulations. You can head on home.”

“...Would I get a higher score if I can make a crystal without the case?” “Show me.”

I did.

Professor Edlyn congratulated me for it, and told me to expect to hear about the “results of my test soon”.

She probably didn’t intend for it to sound ominous, but it definitely did.

I ignored the glares from some of my classmates as I left the room. I didn’t think my early success would hurt anyone else’s score.

Probably.

***The rest of the day was easy. I was still in good spirits from both the world’s easiest final exam and the Haste spell experiments, so I was a little more social than usual.

Of course, “social” for me largely meant that I was willing to involve other people in my experiments.

The first was a bit of sparring with Patrick on the rooftop, while I tried to use Haste magic to dodge his attacks. He used it to practice aiming attack spells more accurately at a moving target, so it was good for both of us.

Well, relatively. I was still terrible at moving with a Haste spell active, but practicing in a combat environment — and with more space than a tiny bedroom — helped me get used to it a little bit more.

We had to stop every couple minutes because I was getting seasick from all the sudden movements, but overall, it was both useful and fun. I think Patrick was happy just to get to spend a bit of time training with just the two of us, too.

I had another practice session with Marissa and Keras in the evening.

That went about the same as the last one. I did try attacking with the Haste spell active as a surprise, but Keras was still faster than me. And he wasn’t even using whatever his pseudo-Haste spell was — I didn’t see the telltale change in his aura that indicated that he was getting serious.

I needed a lot more practice before I could catch up to someone like him.

That was fine, though. I was making progress, and so were my friends.

I had dinner with everyone. After that, I got back to work.

***If I’d learned anything from the conversation with Jin, it was that I needed to verify important information on my own.

Everything he’d told me about the god beast attunements fell into that category.

I paid Researcher a visit.

“Greetings, Arbiter. How may I be of service to you today?”

She was in a different outfit today. It was still a suit, but it was mostly white, closer to our student uniforms. The change was jarring enough that it derailed my train of thought. “What’s with the new clothes?”

“Oh, this? A recent study found that humans in Valia have an easier time empathizing with people who physically resemble them. For example, humans — at least in this nation — appear to be more likely to select mates who have a physical appearance that approximates their own. This study has yet to be fully peer-reviewed, but I am eager to test it on my own! My hope is that by appearing more similar to one of the students, they will be more likely to see me as a reliable information source.”

“That’s... I’ll be interested to hear what you find.” It sounded to me like she was extrapolating from the study in a different direction from what I might have, but it didn’t necessarily mean she was wrong, per se.

It also wasn’t what I was there to discuss, though.

Researcher seemed happy about my indication of interest, at least. “I would be quite pleased to share! Now, what can I assist you with?”

I shook my head, clearing my thoughts.

“I need some additional information related to Project Q-STN and Vera Corrington.”

Researcher’s lips tightened. “I’m afraid the project designated Q-STN is still classified information.”

I’d prepared for that. “It’s directly related to the assignment I was working on for Katashi.”

Researcher seemed to consider that, then nodded with renewed cheer. “Yes, of course. I will be happy to provide you with everything you need.”

It didn’t take long for Researcher to direct me to the appropriate documents. She wouldn’t let me take them home, so I spent a few hours reading at the Divinatory.

Everything Jin had said was accurate, including my mother’s name being on the list of people who had approved the god beast attunements being tested in the Serpent Spire.

Elora Theas, it would seem, was assigned to observe the project on behalf of the Valian government. That made her role in the situation much clearer, although I still didn’t know how she’d ended up working with Tristan and attacking Vera’s group.

There was still a great deal more to this picture I wasn’t seeing, but for themoment, at least I had a paper trail to confirm some of Jin’s claims.

That still didn’t mean I agreed with his approach, but it did mean that I could understand it a little bit better.

Mother...How could you allow this?I bid Researcher a good night and headed back to Derek’s manor.

I wanted to research more, but for the moment, I needed to sleep. I had a test coming up, and I needed to be ready.

***Wyddsday. The day before the second part of the dueling class final exams.

I was almost out of time.

It was also the only day I didn’t have any classes, so I could use it in any way I wanted.

I asked my friends if they’d figured out anything, but they hadn’t. No one had been looking into it; they’d been too focused on practicing.

That left it to me.

I started by looking for Teft himself to ask about the test. I didn’t want to talk to him about it, but it was low risk with a high potential for reward.

For better or worse, I couldn’t find him, at his office or otherwise. I asked Derek and Keras, but they didn’t know where Teft was, either.

So, I asked Researcher to scry on the tournament area.

“That’s an unusual request, Arbiter. Can I ask why?” She peered at me with a strange degree of intensity. She never seemed to blink unless she was using it to display a reaction, like surprise or confusion. Subtle things like that reminded me that as human as she looked, she wasn’t quite the same.

“I’m having a test there tomorrow and I’d like to get information about what I’m up against.”

There was no point in lying to a creature of knowledge. Not only did I suspect she’d be able to tell just by looking at me, it felt rude.

“Oh! Why don’t you just go over there and ask?”

“I’m not sure I’m strictly allowed to know the contents of the test in advance.”

She folded her arms. “Then I’m not sure I’m allowed to help you.”

I frowned. I hadn’t expected resistance from her. “It’s for a dueling class.

Knowing your battlefield in advance is a critical part of duel preparation. I did look for the teacher to ask directly, but I couldn’t find him.”

All true, even if I hadn’t looked very hard. And I could have just asked Researcher to locate Teft.

Fortunately, she caved immediately. Nodding vigorously, she proclaimed, “Yes, gathering information is critical to being a successful duelist! Well done!”

“Thanks. Uh, so, you’ll help?” “Sure! Where is it?”

“The vaban arena.”

Researcher waved her hands, and a flickering image appeared between us.

As I stepped closer, I could see that it was an overhead view of the vaban arena. She pointed at the image. “What do you need to see?”

Wow. That was...quick. I’d never seen someone work a scrying spell so effortlessly, but it did make a degree of sense that an elemental could work spells like that easily. I pointed at the spot where we’d had our previous contest.

The map shifted, showing a closer view of that spot. I could see several people inside, working on the arena floor...were those other students?I watched for a bit, seeing some students lifting up tiles, others putting them down...and still more drawing on new runes.

Wait, is that Professor Vellum down there with them?Oh, those must be second-year Enchanting students. They must be working to change the arena right before the test.

And on the weekend. Yeah, that sounds like one of Vellum’s classes.

That explained a great deal. I’d suspected they had students working on the tiles, but I’d guessed it would be a massive number of first-year students.

Using a single class of second-year Enchanters was more efficient. It wouldn’t take long for a full class of Citrines to enchant all the tiles — or even change the existing enchantments on them.

“Did you see what you needed to see? I can maintain this a little longer, but it’s kind of exhausting.”

I shook my head. “No, I’ve seen what I need to see, thank you.” Researcher breathed a sigh of relief and released the image. “Great. Was ithelpful?”

“Definitely. I know exactly what I need to do.”

***Professor Vellum’s eyes narrowed as I approached. “You’re not in this class, boy.”

I nodded amiably. “You’re right, but you know me, always looking to improve myself. I thought I’d volunteer to help out with the enchanting here, you know, get myself some experience...”

Vellum tilted her head to the side. “You’re in Teft’s class tomorrow, aren’t you?”

“Yep.”

Vellum cackled. “Now you’re thinking like an Enchanter. Just don’t be too obvious about it.”

I pointed at myself. “Me? Obvious? I’ll be the soul of discretion.”

“We both know that you won’t. But either this will be a glorious disaster, or you’ll manage to wipe the perpetual smirk off your professor’s face. I’ll be pleased to contribute to either.”

And just like that, I participated in Vellum’s second-year enchanting exercise, as a “volunteer”.

When the matches came the next day, I was more than ready.

***“Corin, why are you grinning like that?” Patrick asked while we waited for class to begin.

“You’ll see.”

As expected, Teft led us to the vaban arena for our second round of tests. “Assemble the teams you used last time.”

Marissa offered me a friendly nudge. I grinned in spite of the awfulness of being touched without warning. Being on Marissa’s team would make this a lot easier, especially now that she’d had another week to recover and train.

We started doing some warm-up stretches together. She had a smile on her face as she looked at me. “Glad it’s us again, at least. Didn’t want to be paired up with some stranger.”

“Agreed. We’ve practiced this. We can win.”

I didn’t know exactly what the rules of the match were going to be. It would take something truly unfair for me to still have to worry, though.

“Today, your teams are going to be matched against your former teammates. You have five minutes to prepare before matches begin.”

Of course, this was Teft’s class.

Obviously it was going to be unfair.

Marissa and I paused mid-stretch, and there was a brief interlude for expletives.

Teft kept talking. “The rules are the same as last time; you will lose when your shield sigil is depleted, and no outside weapons are allowed. There have been minor alterations to the arena setup, but you should find the match otherwise similar to before.”

We both shifted back to standing positions, sizing each other up. I broke the awkward silence first. “I should tell you in advance that I prepared some things just in case I ended up against someone I couldn’t beat in a fair fight.”

Marissa raised an eyebrow. “And?”

I waved at her. “And obviously, you’re someone I can’t beat in a fair fight.”

“...Resh it, Cadence. I’d think you were tryin’ to flatter me, if ye had an ounce of flattery in you.” She folded her arms.

“I just don’t want you to think I’m targeting you unfairly or something, Mara. I remember when--”

Marissa waved her hands dismissively. “Didn’t know you then, Corin. I get you now. Yer gonna to try to win however you can. It ain’t personal. I get it.” She offered me a hand. “I won’t be going easy, either.”

I clasped her hand. “...You could go a little easy?” She laughed. “Wouldn’t dream of it.”

Patrick and Sera seemed to be having a similar conversation, but I couldn’t hear all of it, because Sera was whispering. Patrick’s replies were clear enough. “I won’t throw the match, I promise!”

After that, Sera went over to Teft and pulled him to the side to whisper something to him. That was unusual, but I didn’t have time to worry about it. If she needed help, she’d ask me.

Mara and I spent another minute getting back to our stretches, then wewalked over to the ring.

It’s the same as yesterday. Six different active settings on the tiles this time, rather than five like before. No middle of the night alterations that I can see. At least, no obvious ones.

Good.

Our five minutes were up shortly thereafter. We were the first pair sent into the ring.

I felt a wave of trepidation as Mara and I walked down the steps.

Teft gave us the sigil monitors to attach to our shield sigils when we reached the bottom. We fastened them on as Teft walked away.

We turned our gazes back to each other. There was a shared feeling of anxiousness and trepidation.

“Best luck,” I offered.

“Goddess be with ye,” she gave in solemn reply.

Equally meaningless platitudes. We would win or lose this on our own. We headed to opposite sides of the arena.

This was not what I’d hoped for on a number of levels.

First, I had wanted as much time to observe the ring as possible. If there had been another match first, I could have confirmed what I’d seen during the setup of the arena.

I tried to console myself with the knowledge that going first was actually to my advantage; if we’d both observed a prior match, Mara would have probably gotten more new information out of it than I would have. I already had a pretty good idea of what we’d be dealing with today.

“Pretty good” was just never good enough for me. I disliked uncertainty, and I’d be uncertain until the match started.

Second, I probably couldn’t beat Mara in a straight fight. Flattery had nothing to do with that; it was an honest assessment. I had two attunements, but neither of them was built for straight combat, and she’d received extra power straight from Katashi. Her total mana to work with was still greater than mine, if only by a small margin.

If I had Selys-Lyann, at least I would have had a reach advantage, but we still weren’t allowed to use any weapons other than standard dueling canes. Melee combat was probably my best bet against most fighters, but againstMarissa, I couldn’t count on winning that way.

Third, and worst of all...even if I won, that meant that Marissa lost a match. I didn’t know how badly that would impact our scores. Based on the last match, it seemed like performance was a factor even for the winners, so I hoped that we’d both just be able to make a good fight of it.

That meant that my “win” condition was harder than just winning the match outright. I needed to win, put up a good fight, and make sure Marissa had a chance to show off as well.

Unfortunately, that took one of my best tools right out of the equation. No matter. I had others.

I was prepared this time. “Bow to your opponent.”

We bowed. Marissa looked nervous, but determined. “Begin!”

Marissa rushed forward, just as I’d expected.

I reached into the bag at my side, watching her.

As Marissa hit the red square in front of her, the ground below her erupted with a burst of light. I expected it to badly damage her barrier, as it would have last time.

That didn’t happen.

She was moving so fast that the light barely glanced her — and the portion that hit her didn’t deal any noticeable damage.

It should have.

I activated my attunement, and I took a step back when I saw what she’d done.

Normally, a shroud started at the skin and extended a few inches outward.

Barriers generated by most magic, including shield sigils, were further out. They were designed to take damage first to protect the wearer from suffering any injuries.

Mara had reversed that relationship. Her shroud was massive, stretched out in all directions from her body. That meant anything that wanted to damage her barrier had to get through her shroud first.

And she had a lot of shroud to get through.

I couldn’t hope to match that degree of shroud control. Guardians were specialists, after all.

Instead, I reached into my bag and pulled out the first device I’d prepared.

Last time, I’d considered disabling my sigil monitor, but that had the risk of activating it by accident. That risk still existed, so I did something a little different. The monitor itself had inspired me.

I clipped a second device to my shield sigil.

It wouldn’t disable the monitor, but now, I had a second mana supply feeding into my shield. It would be a lot tougher to break.

Marissa hit the next square, then the next, and then a third. Blue. A flash of shield recharging energy.

Green. A plume of smoke erupted from the ground, enveloping the square in an instant.

Yellow. A wave of frost shot upward, encompassing her legs. It was this match’s replacement for the vines, serving the function of slowing someone down.

With those tiles active, I knew the pattern. I knew how to proceed.

While Marissa ducked down to smash the ice, I pulled out another device.

It was a bronze sphere etched with six runes, each one matching a color on the floor.

I put my thumb on the red one and concentrated, sending a flare of mana into it.

Then I sent another surge of mana into the runes that were carved into the bottoms of my boots.

Cautiously, I took a step back.

The square behind me, which had been green, turned to purple.

Perfect.

The dueling cane on my belt began to glow.

I stuck the now-active sphere back in my bag, drew my dueling cane, and opened fire.

Marissa noticed immediately, smashing the charged spheres out of the air without effort.

That was fine.

I took another step back.

Once again, the tile beneath me changed to purple. Marissa must have noticed, but she didn’t comment.

Instead, she ducked, deflected one of my spheres, and swung her hand down.

It was charged with a cutting aura, and she’d been practicing. She sliced the red tile in front of her out of the floor in seconds.

Not good.

As she lifted it, I fired another blast from my cane, but she just moved the square out of the way.

The tile flickered with energy as she leveled it in my direction.

She’d used the same tactic last time, and I’d expected it, but that didn’t mean a blast of light was easy to dodge.

If I’d mastered Haste, maybe I would have chanced it. But I was far from even managing a beginner level of the spell.

Instead, I pulled a hand mirror out of my bag and held it out in front of me like a shield.

The blast lashed out, crashing right into me. Part of it hit the mirror, of course, but not much.

My barrier cracked, but only a little.

Marissa glanced at the mirror, looking worried. I grinned.

“Won’t beat me with a tactic you’ve used before.” I waved the mirror at her. “I prepared.”

While I was talking, I shaped my mana, pouring it into recharging the shield sigil as quickly as I could. The backup sigil I’d attached to it was already helping, too.

Marissa tossed the square aside. “Guess I’ll need to use a few new tricks, then.”

She stepped into the empty space where the square had been and took out her own dueling cane. That was unusual, since she rarely used it, and frankly, it wasn’t her strength.

I put away the mirror, trying not to show my relief.

By now, my sphere was almost charged.

I fired a few more blasts from my cane, hoping to buy more time. Marissa parried them, as I’d expected, and returned fire.

I ignited the blade on my cane and smashed it into her attack, intending to deflect the sphere out of the way like I’d done a hundred times before.

The blast ripped the dueling cane right out of my hands. I blinked.

She fired again, grinning.

What was that?I threw myself to the side, avoiding the shot, but I was still stunned. She wasn’t on a purple square like I was — her cane shots should have been weaker than mine.

But the amount of force that she’d managed in a single shot had been colossal. If it had hit me directly, it would have cracked my shields badly, and probably thrown me back for good measure.

Her cane was an ordinary one, the same as mine, no special attachments. But then I remembered —I’d done something similar, once before. Against her.

She’d stolen my technique.

She was overcharging her cane. And she was better at it than I was.

I broke into a run, barely avoiding her shots. I rushed to grab my fallen dueling cane, but she blasted it before I got there, knocking it back further.

Fortunately, I didn’t have to worry about the floor. Every single tile I touched was turning to purple as long as I stood on it, thanks to the runes on my boots. They would revert to the normal color a few seconds after I stepped away, preventing me from leaving a trail of safe tiles.

Marissa’s shots slowed down. That wasn’t a good thing; she was aiming ahead of me now, anticipating my movements.

I couldn’t keep this up. Eventually, she’d hit me, and I wasn’t doing anything to fight back.

As I ran, I charged transference mana in my right hand.

One second.

Another sphere burst right in front of me. I turned toward Marissa.

Two seconds.

I began to rush toward her, rather than away.

Three seconds.

Marissa took a step back out of reflex, but leveled her cane for another shot.

Four seconds.

I closed a bit of distance, but not enough.

Five seconds.

My hand was beginning to tremble. I had enough mana to strike, but I was still out of range.

Six seconds.

Marissa fired another blast at me.

Seven seconds.

I raised my hand, aimed, and fired.

The blast of mana ripped out of my hand and hit the sphere dead on.

Like deflects like, opposites nullify.

Teft had taught us that rule.

She’d charged her sphere with enhancement mana, the direct opposite of transference.

If they were equally strong, they’d cancel each other out. But she’d only been charging her cane for a second at a time.

My blast ripped right through the center of Marissa’s sphere and smashed into her, knocking her back a dozen feet.

It was weaker after passing through the sphere — the enhancement mana inside had, in fact, nullified some of my attack — but not much.

I saw Marissa momentarily clutching her chest as she steadied herself. Her shield had been cracked, but I couldn’t tell how much.

My hand was throbbing. I’d charged it more than five seconds, which I knew was my safe limit.

But safety wasn’t a priority right now. Winning was.

Again.

One second.

Energy began to build in my fingers.

Marissa rushed toward me as a blur, faster than I’d thought possible. She was triggering squares with nearly every step, but she moved so fast that they didn’t have time to take effect.

Two seconds.

She’d almost closed the distance between us, and my attack was far from ready.

Three seconds.

She readied a swing.

I tilted my feet and activated the ring of jumping, blasting myself backward across the floor.

Four seconds.

Her swing met open air, but she kept moving, chasing me.

Five seconds.

She was nearly atop me again.

I swung my hand at her chest and released the blast.

She smashed my arm out of the way with her own, sending the attack harmlessly off to the side.

That’s bad.

Her fist slammed into my face. A flare of agony surged through me, and I felt a swell of blood pour down my nose.

I coughed, and she hit me again, this time in the ribs. The barriers and shroud were both slowing her strikes, but not stopping them. Neither was very effective against pure kinetic force.

I’d been warned about that, but I hadn’t solved it.

I managed to get my arm up in time to stop the next hit, but the pain from her two hits was stopping me from doing much else.

Fortunately, I was wearing the ring of regeneration, and that was already working to get my body functional again.

Unfortunately, it wasn’t working as fast as she could punch me.

In a moment of instinct, I managed to activate my ring of jumping again, pushing myself backward to buy some distance. She pursued, but that moment was enough for me to spit out some of the blood that had trickled into my mouth and raise my hands into a guard stance.

When she swung, I side-stepped and punched her back with an instantaneous flare of transference mana. I connected with her shoulder, cracking her shield and making her flinch for just a moment.

I took another step back, moving to a sideways dueling stance.

I wasn’t a Guardian, but I certainly wasn’t untrained at hand-to-hand.

Just that moment of slowing her down meant that she was now standing still long enough for the square below her to kick in.

Unfortunately for me, it was blue. A mana recharging square. I couldn’t let her stay there.

She seemed to realize the same, and she took a step back, to the edge of the square. She adjusted her footing, looking for openings to hit me again.

While it was tempting to back off and let my injuries heal, I had arrested her momentum, and any sign of weakness would encourage her to pursue. I couldn’t afford that.

Her next attack was a probing jab, which I dodged easily, followed by a sweep toward my feet.

I hopped over it, landed, and flooded my limbs with transference mana.

I’d used a rudimentary Haste spell, one I could barely control. I couldn’t use it to dodge attacks more effectively like I’d originally planned on.

But at this range, that wasn’t what I needed it for.

My fists lashed out like pistons, slamming into Marissa with twice my normal speed and force.

I landed five hits before she managed to grab one of my arms, pull me in, and slam an elbow into my chin.

As I staggered back, she kicked me in the chest, and I flew back another several feet.

I wiped the blood off my face.

Marissa cracked her neck. “Your barrier should be broken by now.”

I stretched my arms, then moved to circle her. “It must be in a good mood.”

She wasn’t wrong. My phoenix sigil had been depleted completely, and my normal sigil would have been empty, if not for my latest attachment.

I pushed a little more mana into recharging my sigil while I was thinking about it, but it wouldn’t amount to much. Even with my vastly increased mana control, it still would have taken me a couple minutes of complete concentration to recharge the sigil entirely.

I’d lost my Haste spell when she’d hit me, but that was fine. I was too dizzy even from the few seconds of using it to do much else with it.

In spite of my hits, Marissa was still in better shape than I was. I was dealing some damage, but her shroud had soaked up much of the strength of my blows.

I didn’t have much time to contemplate a strategy before she charged. “Sorry.” I managed, pulling the sphere out of my bag.

I’d hoped not to have to resort to using the sphere. It was, after all, completely unfair.

But Marissa was right. I was in it to win, and the sphere was fully charged. I threw it at the floor in front of her.

She dodged.

It didn’t matter. I wasn’t aiming for her.

As soon as the sphere hit the tiles, it emitted a pulse of mana that stretched outward across the arena floor.

Every tile the shockwave touched changed to red.

And a moment later, they began to fire blasts of mana into the air. I tapped my foot against the tile below me before it could activate,changing it back to purple.

Marissa had no such advantage.

Instead, she hopped backward, dodging as each tile triggered.

In truth, I’d thought that the gap in timing between blasts would be toosmall, too insignificant for anyone to dodge.

I was wrong.

As soon as Marissa jumped backward, she jumped forward, right onto the tile that had just activated.

Then, as the tile in front of her glowed and fired again, she moved again.

The arena was a blinding array of burning lights, but somehow, Marissa had already found a pattern.

I stared at her for a moment, briefly struck with awe.

She was closing in on me fast, and I was almost out of tricks. Almost.

As she got close enough to swing, I activated the ring of jumping, and did something I didn’t usually bother with.

I jumped.

The jump carried me thirty feet up in the air, and I knew from experience that it would also slow my fall.

Marissa was below me, readying a swing for when I landed. She’d chosen to stand on my purple square, where it was safe.

But my square didn’t stay purple.

Within a moment of my departure, it had changed to red and activated.

The ensuing blast hit Marissa from directly below, cracking her shield critically.

It was almost enough, but not quite. I began to fall.

I charged mana into one of the runes on my right boot and kicked it off as I fell.

Marissa swung at me as I descended, but I activated the ring of jumping again, blasting myself backward.

The motion cost me. I ran straight into a beam of light, which cut my remaining barrier down to almost nothing.

Fortunately, I’d accomplished my goal.

My empty boot landed on the square where Marissa was standing.

The color changed to green, enshrouding the square in smoke.

I landed hard, but my one booted foot changing the square below me to purple.

I was safe.

Marissa was, too — but she didn’t know it. She hadn’t had enough time to observe the functions of the squares, because she’d been charging right through them.

And so, she did exactly what I would have done with such limited information — she got out of the glowing green square as quickly as possible.

To my amazement, she managed to time it perfectly, stepping onto the next tile right after it fired a blast of energy. Given that she’d presumably been blind, I didn’t know how she managed it.

Unfortunately for her, that blindness meant she’d missed something important.

I’d landed right where she’d discarded the square she’d carved out of the floor.

The square flickered once as I poured mana into it, recharging the depleted supply — and then fired a blast that hit Marissa in the face.

Her shield cracked one last time, then shattered. Marissa vanished.

I had won.

***“I can’t believe you threw your boot at me.” Marissa laughed. “I didn’t throw it at you. I threw it at the square.”

“That’s not much better.”

I shook my head. “It’s definitely better. You don’t have runes that I can change.” I considered that for a moment. “At least, not yet. Maybe I could...”

Marissa folded her arms. “Don’t be creepy, Corin.”

“I’m not! I’m just thinking about how Katashi made your attunement stronger. Maybe rather than just strengthening attunements, it might be possible to give them new abilities.”

Marissa frowned. “Not sure it’s wise to be tampering with the work of the goddess.”

Teft finally made it into the recovery room where we were waiting, interjecting in the conversation as we approached. “Master Cadence is many things, Miss Callahan. Inventive, perhaps. Underhanded, certainly. But wise? That would not be a word I would even consider using in his case.”

I turned toward him, wiping my face again with the wet towel the Mender had given me. Marissa had probably torn some cartilage in my nose, but the nasal bone was intact, and the damage was already mostly healed by the time the Menders looked at it. “You’re just cranky because I broke your test.”

“Not at all, Master Cadence.” Teft shook his head. “In fact, I’m quite pleased you decided to reconnoiter before the battle. And preparing specific objects with the test in mind? That’s proper Enchanter behavior.”

I blinked. “Did you just compliment me? I mean, I know it was directly after an insult, but...”

“I am offering a bit of acknowledgement for the things you did right, Master Cadence. You should be prepared by now to know that it will be accompanied by a list of the many things you did wrong.”

“Ah, that’s more like it. You were starting to scare me.”

“The most obvious is that, in spite of having an item that gave you a mobility advantage, you chose to get into a fistfight with a Guardian. And the best fighter in our class, no less. I recognize that you have significant dueling practice, but you are clearly not at Miss Callahan’s level in unarmed combat. What should you have done differently?”

“If I had more time to prepare, I could have made another item for changing squares more selectively. I thought about the idea of making a cane that fired energy designed to activate a specific function on the tiles, but it turned out to be much harder than something that worked on contact. The sphere was the best I could manage.”

“And if you had a rod with that function, how would you have used it?” “Probably would have made the squares in front of Marissa into the iceones. Slowing her movement would have let me get enough distance to retrieve my cane, or to get to the square she’d dropped earlier.”

Teft nodded. “More preparation would have been wise, yes. How could you have handled it better with the resources you had on hand?”

“Hm. I’m honestly not sure. Maybe I could have used the ring to keep my distance more, but once she showed that she could hit just as hard as I could in ranged combat, I don’t know.”

Teft folded his hands. “I don’t know is the wisest thing I believe I’ve heard you say, Master Cadence. Miss Callahan, can you think of any ways he could have improved?”

“Hm. I knew about his ring of jumping before the match, but I didn’t know how much force he could charge up in his hands like that. If I had that kind of skill, I would have gone for a ring out. Maybe ran to the edge and then just blasted my opponent at an angle. Or maybe he could have used the ring itself and just launched me out? Don’t know.”

That was a really good strategy, and one I hadn’t seriously considered. I was so focused on exploiting the mechanics of the match that I hadn’t even bothered with something so...conventional.

I needed to improve on that for the future.

“Good. Master Cadence, you may have had the most complicated victory that I’ve seen this year. That is not a compliment, but it does speak to a degree of strategic ability, and an improvement over your last performance. While I heard some of the students speculating that you would be penalized for cheating, I do not intend to punish you. I do have to ask, however — if you are going to fight dishonorably, why not do something that guaranteed your victory?”

He shook his head. “You had full access to the arena before the match. You could have added a new function to the tiles that depleted the shield of anyone who wasn’t wearing your boots, for example.”

I shrugged at that. “Or I could have just set up a single square that gave me an insurmountable advantage, or that would have turned off my opponent’s shields instantly. Or I could have changed the voice activation for the arena to respond to my voice, as well as yours.

“I considered all that, and I determined that it would have defeated part of the point of the test. While preparations for a duel are expected, a real duel would not allow me such an obvious and instantaneous route for victory. I was hoping to find a way to make the match easier, while remaining fair.”

Teft pointed a hand toward the arena. “No match in that arena, or any other, will ever be fair. If your goal is to be fair, you are already sacrificing performance. You won by a hair today, but you will not win every fight in your life while holding back.” He paused. “In the next semester, I expect for you to show me that you have learned this lesson.”

“...So, I pass then?”

“You both pass. Master Cadence, you, won against a superior opponentthrough preparation, in spite of your mistakes. You receive a grade of B+. Miss Callahan, you lost the match, but your raw fighting ability remains easily the best in the class. Master Cadence, what could she have done better?”

I thought about that for a moment. “That blade-hand technique she used to cut the tiles. She almost definitely could have broken my barrier faster with that, rather than just punching me.”

Marissa winced. “I’d probably have cut you, too, though. I can’t control it that well yet.”

Teft made a gesture of acknowledgement. “A valid concern, given how dangerous that style of technique can be. The solution is to practice your control to the extent that you do not need to have such concerns the next time you have such a match. But that would not have been my advice for this particular match. Instead, I would have advised you to keep your distance, rather than charging in.”

Marissa and I both raised eyebrows at that, and she responded. “But you told him that he was bad for letting me get in close.”

“Indeed. However, what you should have realized was that once he was disarmed, he was practically useless at a distance. Once he was the one who wanted to get into melee range, you could have harried him at a distance with ease. His shield would not have lasted forever.”

We both nodded at that. He was right — my transference mana control wasn’t good enough to hit her at a long distance, and I could only do it a few times. Even now, my hand’s mana hadn’t fully recharged, and we’d been resting for a while.

“In spite of that, your performance was more than adequate. I award you a grade of ‘B’ for this test, and you will retain the highest overall grade in the class as a whole. Unless, of course, one of the later duelists proves superior.”

Marissa breathed a sigh of relief. “Thanks. Can we go watch the other matches?”

“Indeed. In fact, I believe one you’ll be quite interested in is just about to start.”

“Ooh!” Marissa grabbed my hand and pulled me toward the door. “C’mon, let’s go!”

I accepted her grasp with less than the usual amount of awkwardness. I think a round of punching each other had braced me for a degree of physical contact.

And, more importantly, I was just relieved that Teft hadn’t told Marissa that the hand mirror I’d used in the fight wasn’t magical in the slightest.

Maybe I’d fooled him, too.

***Marissa cheered out loud when Rupert Kent lost to Desmond Vyers, and I was glad to see her excited. I had a hard time focusing on most of the matches, though, because my mind was elsewhere.

I was worried about Sera.

Both Sera and Patrick looked incredibly nervous. I suspected Patrick would be fine even if he lost, but Sera was already having a difficult few weeks. I wasn’t sure how much she’d recovered the use of her attunement, but I doubted it could be much.

I offered to let her borrow the mana regeneration bracer, but she declined my offer.

“I don’t want any unfair advantages. I have to do this myself.” She was still only capable of speaking at a whisper, and even that seemed like a struggle for her, but at least she could talk.

I shrugged at that. “I’ve made items for both you and Patrick. You’re injured, he’s not. I don’t think it’s unreasonable.”

“Don’t worry. I have a plan.” She gave me a weak smile. “You always do.”

I was curious exactly what that plan was. Had she prepared for the arena itself, like I had, or was she working on some other style of strategy?The wait was frustrating for me, and I could tell it was agonizing for Patrick and Sera. It was nearly an hour later when they finally entered the arena and took their positions.

“Bow to your opponent.” They bowed.

“Begin!”

Both combatants moved.

Patrick thrust out a hand, firing a blast of lightning.

Guess he’s not going to hold back.

Sera stepped to the side, both avoiding the blast and putting herself on apurple square.

Unfortunately for her, the tile configuration had changed since my match. Ice began to spread up her legs.

Patrick caught her with the next blast of lightning, cracking her barrier. She winced, ducked, and waved her right hand.

The ice shattered.

Sera had her power back. Or, a fraction of it, at least.

Neither Patrick or I knew how much of it she’d regained — which, I suspected, was part of the point.

Sera jumped forward over a blue square and onto a green one. A soft glow enveloped her, and her damaged barrier began to recharge.

Had she already discerned this particular tile pattern, just from one square?It was possible — there were only six combinations. Even so, I was impressed.

Patrick mirrored her, stepping onto a green tile next to him and removing her only obvious advantage. Then he hurled another blast of lightning.

Sera turned sideways to present a smaller target, but he hit her regardless.

More cracks appeared in her barrier, showing it was close to breaking.

I guessed that the phoenix sigil’s barrier could only take two more hits, then she’d be stuck with just the regular shield sigil. That would probably take two hits to disable total.

The recharge tile was helping, but it was too slow to handle the kind of damage she was taking. She needed to do something to fight back.

Sera knew that, of course.

When Patrick fired his next shot, she clenched her right hand into a fist. A wall of ice shot up in front of her, blocking the lightning.

Then she snapped her fingers and the wall broke apart into shards, hovering in the air for an instant before flying in Patrick’s direction.

Patrick countered the ice with fire, blasting the projectiles out of the air one at a time. A single shard impacted his shield, shattering and dealing him a minimal amount of damage.

By that point, Sera had moved, jumping onto a red square. Her dueling cane began to glow, and she pulled it off her belt to fire a shot.

Patrick blasted the cane’s energy out of the air easily, but Sera just kept firing a steady stream of mana in his direction. He was forced to draw his cane to begin batting the spheres aside.

When he returned fire, Sera managed to hit him with two blasts, easily deflecting his own.

Good.

She’d forced Patrick onto the defensive. He hopped back a tile, hitting an orange one and triggering a cloud of smoke to rise around him.

That didn’t stop Sera from attacking. She sent a barrage of energy into the smoke, aiming both high and low in case he was ducking.

When Patrick jumped out from the other side onto another green square, he didn’t seem to have taken any further damage.

It was only when Sera’s next blast neared him that I understood why. His entire body was crackling with lightning.

That lightning lashed out like a living thing, smashing her orb right out of the air.

Sera fired two more shots in rapid succession, but each time, the lightning aura deflected them harmlessly.

I blinked, turning on my attunement, and realized what I was seeing. Patrick had a shroud. He’d hit Carnelian sometime in the last few days,and he’d already learned how to charge his shroud with lightning.

I immediately felt a bit of envy that he’d picked up on how to manipulate his shroud so quickly, but more than that, I felt concerned.

Sera’s odds had been bad enough before.

Patrick turned sideways, assuming the same dueling stance that Sera had. Then he dropped his cane and began to gather a large ball of lightning in his hands.

That’s not good.

Sera whispered something into the air.

With the arena’s enchantments for amplifying sounds, I was just barely able to hear her.

“Vanniv, I summon you.” Patrick hurled the sphere.

A winged man with skin like stone appeared in the way. He was, unfortunately, only six inches tall.

“Ah, Summoner, you finally got around to—”

The ball of lightning flew right past tiny Vanniv. Sera waved a hand, however, and a blast of ice managed to weaken the sphere before it hit her.

The lightning knocked her back a step, but she managed to remain on the same square. The barrier from her phoenix sigil shattered, completely destroyed by the intensity of the blast. If she hadn’t weakened it, I suspected it would have gone straight through her other barrier as well.

Vanniv flapped his tiny wings, turning toward Sera. “What is the meaning of this? Why are you gigantic?” He floated around. “Wait, why is everyone gigantic?... Oh.” He folded his arms. “You probably can’t tell, but I’m glaring at you very intensely right now.”

I couldn’t quite hear Sera’s response, even with the arena’s enchantments.

Something about “later”, maybe?Vanniv turned toward Patrick just in time to see another blast of lightning coming. The tiny karvensi pointed his hand and the electrical energy shifted trajectories, flying harmlessly into a nearby tile. “There. I contributed. You are undoubtedly impressed and ingratiated toward me for this, and thus, you should—”

A handful of jagged icicles flew from Sera’s hand. Patrick blasted at them with lightning, but three shards survived, impacting him hard. He dropped his cane as cracks spread across his shield.

“Just defend me.” Sera instructed Vanniv.

“Fine, fine. But you’re paying me double for this.” “Twice zero is still zero, you know.”

Tiny Vanniv raised a hand to his forehead, looking aghast. “I’m not getting paid? What sort of relationship do you take this for?”

Three more bolts of lightning flew their way, but Vanniv redirected them without difficulty.

Patrick took a more nuanced approach to his next attack, firing a bolt of lightning that split apart in mid-air. Vanniv managed to redirect the original, but one of the pieces arced around and hit Sera from behind. She staggered, her barrier weakening.

One more hit will end it, I suspected.

Sera dropped down to a knee. At first, I worried she was injured, but then I saw her touching a tile.

She wasn’t an Enchanter. She couldn’t charge or manipulate runes in the way I could.

What was she doing?Thin lines of ice spread out from her hand, across the tile and onto adjacent ones.

For a moment, nothing happened; and then three of the tiles around her activated all at once, raising clouds of smoke and bursts of light.

She dove into one of the smoke clouds, then blasted more adjacent tiles with frost, activating them in a similar fashion.

Patrick hurled another blast of lightning at her, but Vanniv intercepted it.

When that failed, Patrick tried fire, but Vanniv handled that just as easily.

More blasts of ice impacted with orange tiles. In moments, there was a contiguous wall of shadow between Patrick and Sera.

Then Sera moved again, jumping to a purple square just as Patrick fired another blast in her direction.

Vanniv floated close to her again. “I know you know this, Sera, but I don’t have an infinite amount of mana to protect you with.”

She raised a hand to her mouth in a signal to be quiet.

Patrick ducked down, rubbing his right hand. The aura of lightning around him faded, then vanished. His eyes searched, but it seemed like he couldn’t find Sera’s location.

Sera conjured a spike of ice in her hands, then levitated it to where she’d been standing a moment before. After that, she waved a hand and sent it flying in Patrick’s direction.

Patrick saw the shard of ice, blasted it with a ball of fire, and then sent another attack in the direction where the ice had come from. It missed Sera entirely, just as she’d clearly intended.

She probably hadn’t planned for him to start throwing balls of fire into the walls of shadow. Most of the fireballs detonated immediately, clearing the frost on the tiles.

With the pressure from the ice gone, the walls of shadow began to disappear.

Not all of the shadows were gone, but Patrick had cleared enough to see her. He turned toward her and nodded once.

With her concealment gone, she began a familiar incantation. “Child of the goddess, I call upon your aid.”

She didn’t get a chance to finish it. A ball of fire flew out from inside of one of the few remaining walls of smoke.

Vanniv pointed and detonated the sphere in mid-air, but a second fireball flew out from another shadow wall and exploded behind Sera.

She stumbled forward a step, losing her focus on the incantation and hitting a yellow square. A beam of light shot upward, hitting her shield and breaking it.

Sera vanished.

Vanniv stared at the spot where she’d been a moment before, sighed, and then flew toward the infirmary.

The match was over.

I rushed to the infirmary.

***I worried that Sera would be crying when I found her inside. I was wrong in a couple ways.

First, they wouldn’t let me into the infirmary. I probably should have expected that.

Second, when Sera finally emerged, she looked smug.

Patrick came out a few moments later, and he looked pretty pleased, too. “You two okay?”

Patrick was practically vibrating with energy. “We both passed! Sera had this great plan—”

She shot him a glower and he cut himself off, then leaned in closer to me to whisper. “—and it got us both good grades!”

His idea of whispering was still about as loud as a normal speaking voice, so Sera continued to glower for a moment, before dragging both of us out ofthe way. Teft emerged from the room a moment later, heading over to prepare the next pair of combatants.

“Discretion, Patrick. Use it,” Sera whispered. “Right, right. I’ll, uh, tell him later?”

We went back to the stands, where Marissa waited with hugs for both Patrick and Sera. The four of us headed back to Derek’s house together after that, with Patrick explaining on the way.

“So, as soon as Sera got her voice back, she started asking people from Teft’s other classes about how his grading worked. Some first-years, some second-years. She made a big list of factors that he seemed to take into consideration, then made a checklist of things we’d need to do in our match to take advantage of that.”

“You weren’t really dueling against each other,” I concluded. “You were just trying to do everything you knew would get more points with Teft.” I rubbed my chin. “That’s...a great strategy, actually.”

I’d been so focused on winning in a traditional fashion that I hadn’t considered going at it from a higher level and focusing on what would earn a grade, as opposed to a victory. Sera had seen that the real goal was graduation, not winning the match, and planned her strategy around that.

To emphasize Patrick’s point, Sera reached into the pouch at her side and handed me a folded note.

Demonstrate that you have determined the pattern of the tile. Use at least one tile to your advantage.

Use at least one tile to cause a disadvantage for your opponent.

Use at least one spell to interact with a tile, rather than directly targeting your opponent.

Deal at least some damage to your opponent’s shield. Move to another tile at least once.

Last for more than five minutes.

The list went on after that. I handed it to Marissa to look over next. I’d seen what I needed to see.

Marissa skimmed it, then nudged Sera. “Could have shared this before the match, you know.”

Sera shook her head. “You didn’t need it. You and Corin did almost everything on the list without seeing it. Showing it to you would have just hurt your focus on fighting.”

She was probably right. I would have obsessed over a list like that, and it would have hurt me more than it helped. I was less sure about Marissa, but we’d done almost everything on the list without trying, so it was probably true.

“Besides,” Patrick added, “We wanted to see which one of you would win.”

I rolled my eyes at that. “You can see that on almost a daily basis.”

Marissa shook her head. “Nae, Patrick’s right. Wasn’t the same as when we’re sparring. That was the first time I’ve seen you really try to fight me.” She cracked her fingers. “It was nice. Wouldn’t mind another match sometime.”

“I wouldn’t have stood a chance if I hadn’t changed the tiles, though.”

She nodded. “Of course you wouldn’t have. That’s why we need to have a rematch. So I can beat you into the ground next time, and feel better about my bruised pride.”

I laughed. “I suppose I’d better start taking our practice a bit more seriously, then.”

“Ye’d better. Because next time, I’m aiming straight for your bag of toys.”

...That wasn’t a bad counter to my strategy, now that I thought about it. If she got my bag — which she could, she was stronger than me and faster most of the time — she’d be able to prevent almost all of my tricks.

I needed to rely on the bag a little less heavily in the future, but for the moment?I felt great. We’d all passed the class. The hardest part of classes for the first half of the year was over.

We teased each other a bit more on the way home. It was an affectionate kind of teasing, though, and to be honest, it was pretty nice.

