CHAPTER XVI – AND THEN EVERYTHING WAS ON FIRE



I did what was obviously the smart thing and ran toward the explosion.

Some others reacted similarly, showing a similar lack of self-preservation instinct.

Others drew weapons.

Marissa ran after the fleeing horses. Oh, right! Horses.

They ran right past me, obviously terrified from the sudden burst of sound and fire.

I was a little surprised they were free to run at all — they must have been detached from the carriage while they were being fed. This was unfortunate timing.

Unfortunate or, more likely, well-planned by a traitor who needed as many distractions as possible.

Sera was only a few feet away from the carriage, holding her head. The sound of the detonation must have hit her hard at that range.

Patrick stepped in front of her, glanced around, then pointed his hand at the flames. “Extinguish.”

The flames flickered, but didn’t subside.

“Was anyone in there?” Someone asked. I couldn’t tell who.

I rushed over to Sera, who was slowly rising to her feet. “You okay?”

She pointed at her head, then frowned. “Mm,” was all she managed to say. “Can’t hear me?”

She stared for a moment, then half-nodded uncertainly. “Resh. Patrick, can you take care of the fire?”

“Trying, but it’s not working. This was a powerful spell, and I’m specialized in lightning, not fire.”

I nodded to him. Then I pointed to Sera, raised my hands up, and made a throwing gesture.

“Wha?” Sera mumbled. “Oh!” She shook her head. “I think...maybe...” She coughed, then took a breath, and began to chant. “Goddess watching from up high, send us snow from the sky!”

I’d expected her Permafrost Cascade spell, but what she conjured was just a bit different. Globes of snow appeared above the carriage and descended, weakening the flames.

The other two Elementalists approached, joining Patrick’s efforts and finally managing to extinguish the flames.

We quickly cleared away the wreckage of the top of the vehicle and confirmed that, fortunately, no one had been inside at the time of the blast.

“What the resh was that?” Kyra asked. “Explosion,” Patrick explained.

“I caught that, genius. I mean, how’d that happen?”

Rupert picked up a rod from the center of the cabin. It was etched with runes and split in half. “This,” he said, “Looks like an enchanted item.”

All eyes turned to me.

“I was over there, talking to Jin.” I pointed at the spot where Jin had been.

He was gone, of course.

“I’m no expert,” Rupert Kent said, “But I do think this is the type of item that could be set in advance and set to detonate at a specific time. Which does seem like the kind of thing you would do, Cadence. No offense.”

“And how would you know about enchanting?” Patrick asked.

Rupert puffed up his chest. “Unlike some of the people here, I actually study quite broadly.”

I waved a hand. “Let me see that and at least confirm if what Rupert issaying is correct.”

“Be my guest.” Rupert tossed me the broken rod. I glanced it over, examining the runes.

He was right. It had a time delayed activation function. The amount of time the item would take before detonating would be based on the amount of mana invested at the time it was used.

“He’s correct about the runes. But I didn’t make this.”

“Right,” Rupert said. “The only Enchanter here didn’t make the magic item. Seems likely.”

“Virtually everyone here is wearing magical items. Anyone could have bought something like this ahead of time. It wouldn’t be expensive.”

“Except they checked us for dangerous weapons on the way in,” Vyers pointed out. “And explosive devices would certainly fall into that category.”

Unless someone was allowed to carry one as a part of being a member of Spider Division, I considered. But explaining that might be unwise.

“Someone could have smuggled it in,” Roland offered. I raised an eyebrow, surprised at his help. “They only did a physical check, not a magical one, as far as I could tell. A Shadow could have gotten through that.”

Some of our eyes shifted to Kyra.

“What? Wasn’t me.” She shrugged. That was apparently going to be the extent of her defense.

“Even if I wanted to make something like that, I couldn’t. That was fire magic. I don’t have fire magic.”

“No, but your buddy there does,” Vyers pointed to Patrick. “And he was the first person to jump to your defense, too. Thinkin’ you could be working together.”

I put my hands up. “And what motivation would I have to do any of this?” “There are Spiders here,” Jin said, appearing next to Vyers and giving thelatter quite a shock. “They have been instructed to sabotage our mission. Our second-year friends can confirm.”

Kathy opened her hands in a gesture of surrender. “Wasn’t supposed to tell you guys, but now that it’s out in the open, yup. That’s part of your test.”

“So, who are they?” Patrick asked.

Kathy blinked. “I’m...obviously not going to just answer that.”

It seemed like a silly question, but Kathy’s eyes shifted when she responded, just for a moment.

I didn’t see where she was looking. But maybe Patrick had?Not a bad move, Patrick. Hope you got something.

“Okay, but why? They broke some of our crates, but most of the contents seem intact. Were they just expecting the fire to burn longer?”

“The horses,” Jin answered. “And, if they are particularly clever, a trap for whoever runs after the horses.”

I took just an instant to process that.

Patrick responded first. “Marissa! She’s in danger! We need to go after her.”

Kyra shook her head. “Marissa might be able to keep up with a horse, but she’s a Guardian. None of us are going to be able to catch them any time soon.”

“Actually, that’s not quite true.” I glanced from side to side. “I’ll be right back.”

Haste.

A field of transference mana manifested around my legs.

I broke into a run, ignoring the shouts from the people behind me. I could clear my name later.

For now, I had a friend to save.

***I still wasn’t particularly adept at running with the Haste spell active. Even practicing for weeks, I was still stumbling any time I hit a particularly large bump or a root. Twice, I nearly fell flat on my face.

But the speed boost was significant. I hadn’t measured it, but I guessed I was running at about twice my normal speed. Maybe a little less, after accounting for necessary slowdowns to avoid taking a tumble.

With that kind of speed, it only took me about two minutes to find Marissa, surrounded by half a dozen monsters.

The road ahead of her was blocked by a tremendous boulder — and a single figure in a hooded cloak stood atop it, glimmering with magical energy.

Two more humanoid figures in similar garb stood at the edge of the forest, simply watching.

No sign of the horses.

As I approached, a wolf-like beast with metallic blades protruding from its back leapt at Marissa.

She ducked, grabbed its legs while it was still airborne, and then spun and hurled it at another monster — an animated suit of armor.

The monsters collided and tumbled to the ground, but I knew they wouldn’t be down for long.

Still, I had greater concerns.

One of the figures in the forest raised a hand and pointed it straight at Marissa’s back. A halo of fire appeared around his hand.

He’s a heart-marked, and he’s charging a stronger spell.

I ran straight at him.

I was too unsteady on my feet to draw my sword while I was running. I settled for something else.

One. Two. Three.

He turned toward my running footsteps. His hood fell backward, exposing a student’s face with almost comically wide eyes.

He shifted his hand toward me, still glowing with fire.

Four.

Good enough.

I slammed my fist into his chest, discharging the transference energy I’d been storing inside.

He flew backward, slammed into a tree, and then fell still.

I...might have hit him too hard.

Marissa turned toward the sound, absently backhanded a blast of lightning that came at her from the other direction, and then waved at me. “Oh, hey, Corin!”

Then a bear monster jumped on top of her, slamming her to the ground. “Ack!” I managed, rushing toward her.

The bear-thing reared up to take a bite.

In that moment, Marissa rolled over. “Rude!” She punched it in the face. The bear fell backward, looking stunned, and Marissa sprung to her feet,throwing a backward kick at the animated suit of armor that had just dislodged itself from the wolf.

Another blast of lightning came from the student on the other side, this time connecting. Marissa winced, falling back, and I saw her shield crack just slightly. It wasn’t the first crack, though.

A quick inspection with my attunement showed that she’d projected her shroud to outside of her shield, just like she had in the arena. That shroud was soaking up most of the damage she was taking, but not all of it.

And if her barrier broke, she’d be out, regardless of whether or not she could keep fighting.

I kept running toward her, but another monster got in my way. It looked mostly like a human, but with a neutral mask instead of a face.

Oh, that’s a—The figure’s body stretched and distorted, flesh transmuting as it formed a school uniform. Black hair burst from the back of its head. A sword formed in its hand.

Then I was staring at an exceptionally creepy copy of myself, the only distinction being the neutral mask remaining in place of a face.

It raised a sword that matched my own, including with the transference aura surrounding it. I didn’t know how it managed that one.

But I knew what I was fighting. This was a charade, a type of magical construct that could copy the general appearance and capabilities of humans. It wasn’t quite as dangerous as a doppelganger, but it was still considered a Sunstone-level threat.

And it was coming at me fast.

I raised my own sword to parry its first strike, but another strike came at me almost instantly.

With my attunement still active, I understood why. His whole body was glowing with an aura of transference mana.

The charade had copied my Haste spell. And it was better at using it than I was. That strike only clipped my coat.

I stepped back, taking a defensive stance, but he struck again and connected this time, leaving a gash along my ribs. My phoenix sigil took the brunt of the damage, but it hit hard.

Not only had it left a gash along my side, the pure force of the blow left me staggering backward and coughing.

Now I know what being hit with a sword with a transference aura feels like.

While the charade continued to harry me, Marissa was still surrounded by five other monsters.

She was doing a great job at defending herself and redirecting their attacks into each other, but she wasn’t doing much real damage, and they were wearing her down.

I need to help her.

I tried to sweep the charade’s legs, but it hopped back, surprisingly nimble.

I wasn’t particularly used to fighting intelligent monsters. Humans usually had an advantage in finesse against the more bestial creatures, like that blade- wolf-thing.

In this case, I had fewer advantages. It was faster than me, and if the moments our blades had met were any indication, probably stronger.

I made a few probing strikes. It responded with expert precision, deflecting my blows without effort.

I had no noticeable skill advantage to exploit. At least not when taking the creature’s enhanced speed into account.

Haste.

I stretched the aura across my entire body, enhancing my speed for both my movements and my attacks.

I unleashed a flurry of rapid strikes. No pausing to aim. No bothering with critical locations.

The charade parried every strike. It was like it knew every move I was about to make.

Maybe it did.

In a fair fight, I stood no chance. There was only one option, then.

Fortunately, fighting fair had never really been my style, anyway.

It’s just like the shadow I fought in the spire, I realized. Only, instead of a mirror...

The charade jabbed toward my face. I moved my head to the side, but the aura brushed my cheek, leaving a gash.

That strike brought him closer to me, though. I stepped in and rammed my forehead into the mask, discharging a burst of transference mana in the process.

I didn’t like using my mind mana. But I liked losing fights even less.

The creature fell back, cracks spreading across its mask where I’d landed the hit.

My own forehead hurt from the impact, but not enough to slow me down.

Gotcha.

I rammed my sword through the creature’s chest. That was a bad move.

The charade’s torso distorted, hardening into an armor-like substance. My sword was stuck.

It brought back its own blade, preparing to strike.

I gripped my sword in both hands, then concentrated.

Condense.

The aura of mana around my blade shifted all to one side — the top of the blade.

Then I pulled upward.

I split the charade’s torso and head in half.

The creature crumpled to the ground immediately, then shifted in shape again. The features that resembled mine dissolved, leaving a clay statue with a cracked mask.

Then even that vanished as the mana sustaining the creature faded away.

I turned toward Marissa. A clawed humanoid with green scales and a beak had grabbed onto her right arm.

She kicked the wolf-like creature as it tried to approach her again, then slammed an elbow backward into the scaled monster, but it didn’t let her go.

The robed figure on the opposite side of the clearing hit her with another blast of lightning. More cracks formed in her shield, and it was evident it wouldn’t hold much longer.

Closing the distance would have taken seconds, but attacking from here was faster.

I swung my sword and projected a wave of force, which hit the green- scaled creature in the back.

As it gasped in pain, Marissa adjusted her stance and hurled it over her head, right into the blades protruding from the top of the wolf.

The results were...messy. But effective.

The scaled monster vanished a moment later.

I rushed forward after that, while Marissa dodged a charge from the bear- like monster and hopped over a sword-strike from the animated suit of armor.

With that, I was at her side. Marissa grinned brightly at me. “Took you long enough.”

“Oh, yes, let’s complain about our rescuer. That seems reasonable.” I blocked a swing from the walking suit of armor.

Marissa rolled her eyes. “Rescue? Is that what this is? Thought you just couldn’t stand two minutes without me.”

The bear-like monster swung around and tried to maim her with a claw, but Marissa danced backward, then swept upward with a kick. Her aura whipped forward and sliced the creature’s head clean in half.

The monster collapsed, then vanished.

“That’s a new one. Haven’t seen you do that with a kick.” I side-stepped a lunge from the blade-covered wolf, jabbing my sword into its side.

The wolf howled, then took a deep breath. A sphere of flame began to form within its jaws.

“Nope, not happening.” I stabbed right through its neck. It vanished a moment later.

A blast of lightning caught me in the side, knocking me back a step andleaving a dangerous web of cracks in my barrier.

I cast a glance at the figure in the woods, then blocked another swing from the suit of armor.

Marissa smashed the armor with a fist, staggering it, and I followed it with a cut that knocked the sword out of its hands.

After that, Marissa punched the helmet right off it. There was no head inside, of course, but it still looked pretty brutal.

Fortunately, it fell and vanished a moment after that.

I slashed another blast of lightning out of the air, then attached a thread of mana to my shield sigil with my other hand. It was something I should have done a lot sooner, but I’d been distracted.

Then I stepped back, avoiding another blast, and began to recharge my sigil.

The last remaining monster was a slime. Marissa kicked it. It died. “Left or right?” Marissa asked, glancing to the two remaining students,who were slowly beginning to back away. “One second first. C’mere.”

Marissa raised an eyebrow and turned toward me. “I know I was talkin’ about missing me, but now is hardly the place or the time—”

“Ssh.” I put a hand on her shield sigil and poured mana into it. The cracks faded. “There. And left, by the way.”

Marissa laughed. “Aww, I wanted that guy. But fine.” We charged in two different directions.

For the sake of symmetry, I sheathed my sword and charged more mana into my fist.

“Star descends from sky!” Marissa shouted in the distance. “Uh...explodey fist!” I tried.

“Explodey fist?” The cloaked student had just enough time to question my attack naming abilities before I slammed a glowing fist into his chest.

He flew back just like the previous one had. His barrier cracked and shattered.

I rushed over to make sure he wasn’t too badly hurt, but he was already picking himself back up. The shields didn’t stop an attack completely, butthey did a pretty good job of stopping a single punch — even a strong one - from causing permanent harm.

I didn’t bother to check on Marissa’s fight immediately. I went to the other student I’d smashed right at the beginning of the fight.

His eyes were reddened, and he still had a trail of tears along his sleeve. I paused at a few paces away. “You okay?”

“...Yeah. Just disappointed.”

I nodded. “Sorry about that. You did a good job with the ambush.” “Not good enough, I guess. You’d think with two Summoners and anElementalist we could have handled two other students.”

I shook my head. “It was a good strategy.” I offered him a hand and helped him to his feet. “Marissa and I are two of the top students in a dueling class.

You had bad luck, that’s all.”

“Bad luck.” He shook his head. “Guess that makes me feel a little better, at least. But Dad is still going to beat the resh out of me when I get sent home.”

My fist tightened when I heard that.

I glanced from side to side. No one else was watching us. “Give me your shield sigil for a second.”

The student frowned, but complied. “Why? I already failed. There’ll be a signal going to the Soaring Wings.”

“They may not be able to tell how many signals are coming from one area.”

I knew how the sigil monitors worked. This one was only slightly different from the ones we’d used in the dueling class.

I sent a hint of mana into the shield sigil, recharging it with just a fraction of the sigil’s capacity. Then I reset the monitoring rune.

With that, it would detect that the shield was still intact. And, hopefully, it would stop signaling the Soaring Wings.

“What are you...?”

I handed it back to him. “Put it back on. It may register as not completely broken. No promises, I haven’t tested this before. Hide until the Soaring Wings show up, then have them check the sigil. They may let you stay.”

“I...thank you. I don’t know what to...”

“Don’t attack my group again. Period.” The other student nodded weakly.

“Good. I’m going to go check on the others now.” I started to head toward Marissa.

“Wait.”

I turned my head. “Yeah?”

“One of the traitors in your group is one of the second-years. Kathy.”

I opened and closed my jaw, but no sound came out. One of the second- years? That wasn’t even close to fair.

But of course it wasn’t.

They must have known we wouldn’t consider the second-years an option.

That made discovering them much less likely.

And we didn’t even know what Kathy’s attunement was. It hadn’t been listed.

I took a breath. “Thank you. Do you know if there are others?” The student shook his head. “No, sorry. Kathy was our contact.” “Got it. Take care of yourself.”

“Thanks... I’m Ryan, by the way.” “Corin. I’ll see you later.”

I waved and headed over to where Marissa was, weirdly, still facing off against the third student.

I’d expected it to be over with one punch.

Upon arriving at the scene, I could see why it wasn’t. Marissa had just finished pummeling two more monsters into a pulp.

This third student was not only a Summoner, they were a strong one if they still had enough mana for more at this point.

They weren’t even breathing hard. They just stood on that rock, arms folded as Marissa and I approached.

“Fools. This land belongs to the Tails of Orochi. And, like our master, if you cut off a single head—”

“Punching you now.” Marissa slammed a fist into the student’s stomach.

I was mildly disappointed. I’d been enjoying the evil monologue. The student doubled over, coughing. “Ow.”

“Sorry. Looks like it’s going to take one more.” Slam.

The student’s shield shattered.

“Ugh. You could have at least let me finish my speech.” Marissa scoffed. “That is literally never a good idea.”

I walked over. “You both okay?”

“Just a couple scrapes and bruises. Nothin’ yer phoenix sigil won’t fix.” She jerked a thumb at the other student. “And I didn’t hit this guy too hard.”

“Your standards for ‘hard’ are absurd,” the student complained, then broke into a cough.

“All right. Looks like everyone is alive.” I considered casting a lesser regeneration spell on each of the students to help them recover faster, but I still had no experience at actually casting healing spells on other people. Even though regeneration spells were ostensibly safe, they didn’t seem injured badly enough that I should take any sort of risk. I needed to practice healing in a controlled environment first.

“Okay, Mara. Any idea where the horses went?” “Off the trail. Monsters spooked ‘em.”

“You want to try to follow them into the woods?” “Nah.”

“Neither do I. Let’s head back to the others. Thanks for coming to help me.”

Marissa grabbed me in a hug. I froze.

Marissa pulled off. “Somethin’ wrong?”

“Little warning next time, Mara. I’m...sort of sensitive about people grabbing me.”

“Oh. Uh, sorry. I uh, thought it was okay. We’re friends, right?” “It’s not... Of course we are, I’m just not good at dealing with beingtouched. I have trouble even with Sera.” I sighed. “It’s nothing personal.”

She frowned. From her expression, I wasn’t sure she believed me. “Oh, okay. I’ll try to be a little more careful, yeah?”

I nodded. “Thanks.”

“Do you, um, want to talk about it?” “It?”

“Why you’re like that?”

I shook my head. “No. No, I do not.” “Okay. I understand.”

I doubted that, but I wasn’t going to argue further. We walked back to the others in silence.

Maybe I should have talked to her.

It might have helped keep the intrusive thoughts — and memories — from running through my head.

***“You made it back!”

Patrick’s excited tone was a sharp contrast to the tone of my thoughts.

I tried to focus. But sometimes the more I tried to ignore something, the more it forced itself into my mind.

Fortunately, Mara did the talking. “Got jumped by three students on the Orochi team. Got to thinkin’ that this wasn’t a coincidence.”

“We concur.” Vyers said as he approached. “In fact, Corin is suspected of working with them.”

“Unless their team wins by bein’ punched, I doubt that.” Marissa folded her arms. “Ran right out and helped me, unlike the rest of you. Not that I needed any helpin’, mind you.”

Vyers turned to Kyra. “We only have their word for it. She could be one of them, too.”

Kyra nodded. “I’ll go check it out and see if there really are other students out there.”

“You shouldn’t go alone,” I suggested. “Assuming their teams are structured like ours, three of them being there means there are still at least two others out there.”

“Unless those two others are already inside our group,” Vyers pointed out.

Possible, I considered, but more likely they’d have a full five and then the infiltrators on top of that.

Still, I couldn’t know for sure.

“All right.” Kyra gestured to Rupert. “Kent, you’re with me.”

Rupert gave Marissa a long look as the pair of them walked past us. Her hands balled into fists, but she didn’t say anything.

“I need to talk to Roland.” I started heading back toward the rest of the group, but Vyers stepped in front of me.

“Don’t think so. Not by yourself, at least. You’ve been having a lot of one- on-one conversations already. That’s more than a little suspicious.”

I nodded. “Sure. I’ve had time alone with Roland, Jin, and Marissa. You can’t honestly think we have four infiltrators, though, can you? That’d be an absurd ratio.”

Vyers shrugged. “I’m not dismissing any possibilities at this point. Could be half of us for all I know.”

“That’d be patently unfair.”

“Do we even know we have an infiltrator?” Marissa asked. “I mean, couldn’t someone have just fireballed that wagon from a distance?”

“You missed it. We found an explosive device in the wagon,” Patrick explained. “But that doesn’t mean it was any one of us. Maybe they had someone who was invisible that planted it.”

“Oh.” Marissa frowned. “Huh.”

“Not impossible,” Vyers turned toward Patrick, “But extremely unlikely.” “Okay, Vyers. Why don’t you come with me to talk to Roland? You canhear what I have to say.”

“Acceptable.” He nodded. “Let’s go.”

“Any reason why we couldn’t come?” Patrick asked.

I hesitated, but Vyers answered for me. “Information control may be important if we do have an infiltrator in our group. Corin must have something he wants to keep confined for now.”

I made an apologetic expression. “Sorry, Patrick. My intent is to let everyone in on this soon, but I’m under some restrictions right now.”

“Okay.” He raised three fingers in a symbol of good luck. “You’ve got this.”

“Thanks.”

Vyers and I went to talk to Roland.

Of course, Vyers was one of the most suspicious people himself — he’d been weirdly quiet at the beginning, allowing Kyra to take charge, and now he was being much more assertive.

Maybe the explosions had just encouraged him to step up his leadership, but it was plausible there was something more than that going on.

“Roland, step away with us for a moment?” I asked.

“Sure.” Roland nodded, and we found a corner to talk in private. “You found something?”

“Yes. Can I say your attunement in front of other people?”

Roland frowned. “Sure, if you actually know it. But that was awfully quick. You sure you—”

“You’re a Diviner. Right leg.”

“That was...awfully quick. Can I ask?”

“I’ll explain later. For the moment, I’m in need of your expertise.” “Sure. I can help you now that you’ve identified my attunement.” Vyers frowned. “Is that part of the test somehow?”

“Not exactly,” Roland explained. “More of a broader school restriction.” Vyers gave Roland a skeptical look.

I needed to act quickly, in case Vyers was about to stab us in the back. “As a Diviner, you can make memory crystals, correct?”

“Certainly.”

“Can you make them from other people, or just from your own memories?”

“Just my own, unfortunately. Making them from other people is a much more advanced skill.”

“That’s unfortunate. I was hoping you could make memory crystals of everyone reading their assignments.”

Vyers looked at me with an expression of surprise. “That’s...actually apretty good idea.”

I nodded. “Ideally, that’d let us circumvent the ‘no looking at other people’s paperwork’ rule. For the moment, though, it seems we can only use it to verify Roland’s assignment.”

“I can do that. Hold on a minute.” Roland closed his eyes and opened his palm. It took him a minute or two to form a crystal, which he then handed to me. “It’s not one of the self-triggering ones. I’ll need to cast a spell on you to enable you to view it, and you’ll be incapacitated while you watch.”

I didn’t like the sound of that. “Let me do it in the middle of the group.

Then we can pass it around.”

“Let me watch it first.” Vyers gestured to the crystal. “But still within the group. And you can watch it second. I need to make sure you don’t tamper with it somehow.”

I didn’t have any way of doing that, but that was fine. I appreciated a degree of paranoia. Respected it, even. I handed Vyers the crystal.

“Let’s go.”

We met up with everyone, forming a circle, and explained the situation. Vyers sat and held the crystal.

Roland pressed two fingers against Vyers’ forehead. “View memory.” The crystal shimmered.

Then we waited.

Kyra and Rupert returned while Vyers was still watching the crystal vision. “What’s this about?” Kyra asked.

We explained.

“Is this really necessary?” Rupert asked. “It’s obviously gotta be an Enchanter and an Elementalist working together. And it wasn’t me.”

“There could be any number of our members involved,” Sera replied, “Or none at all. Being able to validate that a Diviner is not a member of the opposition is extremely useful. Even if he can’t make crystals from the rest of us, Roland may have other spells he can use to gather information.”

“Fine, fine. Let’s get this over with.”

“Did you find three students?” Sera asked.

Kyra replied. “Two. But they explained they had a third with them that justgot away.”

Marissa frowned and glanced at me. “Guess you didn’t hit them all quite hard enough.”

I felt just a little guilty, but if I had the chance to help that student — Ryan— escape from a situation anything like my own...

“I’ll be more careful next time.” It was the best I could manage to say. Vyers reopened his eyes. “Think he’s clear. You all can watch, too.” He passed the crystal to me, and Roland repeated the spell.

This wasn’t my first time viewing a memory crystal, but it was still disorienting seeing through someone else’s eyes.

At least in this case, I didn’t need to see much. The memory was from him reading the paperwork, so I just had to read what he had been reading.

There was nothing in the memories aside from the paper — I couldn’t even hear anyone talking in the background. He must have gone somewhere quiet to read.

Royce, RolandPlatoon Designation: Phoenix OmegaPrimary Assignment: Delivery of goods to designated settlement. When you have reached the designated location, goods will be checked by your contact (see Student Supervisor for information on mission contact).

Secondary Assignment: Assist the Enchanter with two attunements if you can discover their mission. Your usual requirements are applicable.

The handwriting was different from my own paperwork. He must have been given his assignment by someone different. I wasn’t sure if that mattered.

My eyes reopened a minute later.

“I don’t see anything overtly suspicious.” I handed it to the next person. Something seemed just a little bit off, though.

Was I just being too suspicious of everything?“Okay, while everyone else is watching that, we still need to work. We’velost two horses, and some of our supplies are damaged.” Sera waved at the nearest wagon. “Fortunately, the horses for the other wagon didn’t bolt, so we still have one functional one.”

“Can one horse pull a wagon?” Patrick asked.

“Not one that heavy,” Roland replied. “But we might be able to consolidate the undamaged boxes into one carriage and leave the other behind.”

“We can carry a few boxes if the horses can’t handle it all,” Marissa offered.

I turned to Patrick. “Could you levitate a wagon?”

He shook his head. “Nope. Way too heavy. One box, maybe, and even then I couldn’t do it for very long.”

“Guess we’re consolidating boxes, then, and we’ll see if they can handle the load,” Kyra offered. “Let’s have a few of us stay here and watch the people using the crystal. The rest can check the damage and pack up.

We got to work.

Vyers pulled me to the side. “I may have misjudged you. That was a wise idea. I still don’t trust you, but there’s a better chance you’re not involved.

But why did his orders say to find you?”

I wasn’t sure if I should say, but at this point it was mostly out in the open. “I had orders to find the traitor — or traitors — in the group from the beginning.”

“And you didn’t think to tell the rest of us about something that important?”

“I didn’t want anyone to be aware that someone knew there were traitors.

If I told everyone I knew about the infiltrators, everyone would be on their guard around me.”

“Still a bad strategy. Ten set of eyes — or even five, if we have five traitors— would have been better than yours.”

I titled my head back and forth noncommittally. “Maybe. I didn’t expect them to move this quickly.”

“Well, they did. And now we’ve gotta clean up the mess. Anything else I should know?”

My lips tightened as I considered. “Nothing I’m comfortable saying to one person at a time.”

“That, at least, I can agree with. Fine. But if you do know anything, you need to find a time to share. And soon.”

I nodded. “Agreed.”

The only question was who I should share that information with.

I had the most evidence that Roland was not involved, but elements of it still bothered me. His inability to share information still hadn’t been fully explained, and it certainly could have been because he was a Spider.

Moreover, just seeing his paperwork didn’t mean he couldn’t have been given a different assignment verbally.

And he was carrying a bunch of magical items, which I still hadn’t gotten an explanation for. If he was a Diviner, that meant he had definitely been equipped by someone in advance. I didn’t know if he had explosive items or not. I would have needed to examine everything in his bags for that.

I wasn’t sure any degree of evidence was going to make me completely secure in Roland’s loyalties.

Who, then?Could I trust that there were few enough traitors that just excluding Kathy from the discussion and including two or more others would mean it was likely at least one person I was talking to could be trusted?Was there any way I could determine someone’s affiliation with any degree of certainty?Vanniv descended from the sky while I was considering — and that gave me an idea.

***We marched on. Vanniv pointed out a few locations where we’d have to watch out for monsters, and in each case we sent a group ahead to wipe them out.

There weren’t any major threats in the area — we had hundreds of students going down these pathways, and most of the monsters must have been cleared out by the earlier groups or the Soaring Wings.

Later in the evening, I pulled Vyers, Sera, and Jin into a discussion.

“I think I have a method of solving our problem. There’s one major issue, though. Kathy is most likely one of the traitors.”

“Kathy?” Vyers looked incredulous. “You think they’d make a second-year... Wait, yeah, our professors really are that cruel. Okay. Maybe.” “I can handle Kathy.” Jin patted one of the pistols on his waist.

“That’s...not exactly the kind of problem I was talking about, Jin. But good to know.” I shook my head. “It’s information that’s the issue. I need to ask a policy question on whether something is allowed, and I’m not sure I can trust the answers from the second-years. If Kathy is compromised, Jordan might be as well.”

“That seems a little extreme. We’d have to doubt every element of our assignments at that point,” Sera pointed out. “Which, I suppose, could be the purpose of this assignment. But I doubt it. They want us to be working toward being soldiers, and that’s going to require a degree of trust for the chain of command and authority figures.”

“I concur,” Vyers replied. “If Kathy is compromised, I find it less likely that Jordan would be. And in either case, I doubt that a rules issue would be something they could lie about. That seems like it’s beyond the scope of someone playing a traitor in the test.”

“Fair. It’s a wording question.”

“Why do you think Kathy is a traitor?” Sera asked.

“One of the players on the other team told me,” I explained.

“...Why would they give you an honest answer about that?” Vyers asked. “They’re probably just trying to sew discord.”

I shook my head. “I doubt it. It was after I eliminated them.”

“They probably just wanted to get back at you, then, by planting false information. Maybe save their score.” Vyers explained.

“Maybe.” I shrugged. “But they told me because I was being nice.” “...Oh. Hm.”

“You’re sure about this, Corin?” Sera sounded concerned.

“No. I’m not sure about any of this. I’m terrible at people. But, if nothing else, now we have a means for getting answers.”

Sera smirked at that. “Okay. Let’s give it a try. I’ll go get Jordan.”

She walked off, bringing Jordan over to the rest of us a few minutes later. “What’s this about?” Jordan asked.

“I have a question. Our orders from before the test were that we could notshow our paperwork to other students. Correct?” He shrugged a shoulder. “Sure.”

“Does that mean we could show them to someone else who isn’t a student?Say, a professor?”

Jordan nodded. “Good question. Yeah, if you find one of the professors at the encampment, you could show them your orders.”

“And other non-students?” I asked.

“I guess, but I don’t see any reason that other people would be out here.” I turned toward Sera.

She’d already picked up on the idea, of course. “Vanniv, I summon you.”

Vanniv appeared by her side. “Twice? You must have missed me terribly.”

Jordan turned to Vanniv, then back to us. “I’m not...hmm... Yeah, you know what? Breaking the spirit of the rules a little bit, but I think you’d get away with it.”

“That’s all I needed to know.” I reached into my pouch and retrieved my paperwork. “Vanniv, do me a favor and read this out loud.”

A few minutes later, Vanniv had read the paperwork of Sera, Vyers, myself, and even Jordan out loud.

Everyone had little secondary assignments, but aside from mine, none mentioned the Spiders in the group. The others were pretty mundane. Sera was tasked with making a contract with a monster living in the woods, for example.

And none of them had any orders to sabotage the group. “Shall we continue this with everyone else?” Sera asked. “Let’s.” Vyers replied.

“Don’t forget that this doesn’t prove anything,” I pointed out. “We may very well discover that no one has written instructions to betray the group. They could have been given their orders verbally.”

“It’s still a good start. There has to be a reason they wouldn’t let us share our orders directly. We’re fortunate we had help.” Sera patted Vanniv on the arm.

“I live to serve.” Vanniv bowed. “Myself, that is.”

Sera rolled her eyes. “Truly, you’re a paragon of virtue.”

“When one considers self-preservation a virtue, I would indeed be an exemplar.”

We retrieved the others. “Be ready for anything.” “What’s this?” Kyra asked.

“We’ve determined a fair method for learning everyone’s assignments without breaking the rules.” Sera waved to Vanniv. “He’s not a student, so we can share them with him. He reads them aloud.”

“That feels a little like cheating,” Rupert pointed out.

“No, it’s fair.” Kathy explained. “It was expected that someone would eventually think to ask for outside help. Either that, or you’d just have someone like Kyra rifle through everyone’s bags at night.”

That was the backup plan, but I was going to ask Jin, not Kyra. “Vanniv, go ahead and read the ones we already handed you first.” Vanniv read ours out loud again.

“Now, let’s form a line and have everyone—”

“Sera could have asked the karvensi to say anything,” Kyra protested. “And a Summoner with a karvensi would be quite capable of helping an Enchanter make a fire enchantment.”

“I am quite proficient at fire magic,” Vanniv offered.

“Not helping right now,” Sera nudged him. “Look, the rest of these people saw me summon Vanniv. I couldn’t have given him orders like that.”

“Standing orders. You could have told him last time you summoned him, when he was ‘scouting’,” Kyra pointed out.

That was...true. And Sera did have the planning abilities to have told him something like that in advance.

Maybe she’d come up with this plan before I had...and maybe.. “Vanniv, I command you to ignore any previous orders that I may havegiven you related to those papers. I command you to read them aloud again, without any alterations.”

He read the papers aloud again. There were no changes. “Satisfied?” Sera asked.

“...Probably.” Kyra replied.

Kyra and Vyers were almost as paranoid as I was. I decided I liked them.

“Okay, if that’s resolved, can we have him read the rest of the papers?” I asked.

“One problem,” Rupert replied. “I lit mine on fire.” I blinked. “Seriously?”

“Actually,” Kathy added, “I did, too.”

Convenient.

But it wasn’t a bad strategy, even for someone who wasn’t a traitor, if they had any information in their documents they didn’t want getting out. It was possible I should have destroyed my own paperwork to prevent any Spiders from reading it.

“Great. Well, the rest of you, then?”

“I destroyed mine as well,” Roland added belatedly. “But you all saw me reading them.”

Most people seemed satisfied with that, but I wasn’t certain.

Vanniv read the paperwork that was handed to him after that. I felt intensely relieved that Patrick and Marissa didn’t have anything suspicious in their assignments.

I was less relieved and more surprised when Kyra didn’t have any suspicious orders. Her personal assignment was to discover the location of a hidden item in the encampment we were heading to and to retrieve it. Nothing involving Spiders.

Vanniv returned everyone’s papers to their original owners, and we packed them away.

“So, now what?” Vyers asked. “We’re no closer to a solution.”

“We are,” Sera replied. “We have at least partial verification that several people are innocent. Rupert and Kathy are now our most serious subjects.”

“Don’t blame me just because I was smart enough to take precautions against theft.” Rupert folded his arms. “And you think a second-year is a suspect? Please.”

“Actually,” I put a hand on the hilt of my sword, “I had a little conversation with one of the members of the other team after we beat them down.”

“Oh?”

I drew my weapon and pointed it at Kathy. “He said you were their contact.”

Kathy put a hand over her heart. “Me? That’s insane. I’m one of your supervisors.”

“And I have a practiced distrust for authority figures.” I took a step forward. “What’s your attunement, Kathy? You never told us.”

“Mine?” She tilted her head to the side. “It’s the one that lets me do—”

Marissa grabbed her from behind, pinning Kathy’s arms. “Nope. That’s an ‘I’m about to surprise attack you’ phrase if I’ve ever heard one.”

“Could have just said an attunement name if you wanted to tell us,” Vyers replied.

Kathy growled. “You’re making a big mistake.”

“Why? You still haven’t told us your attunement. Are you still claiming you’re innocent?” I asked.

“No, not because of that. Because while you’ve been watching me, my partner has been finishing our assignment.”

“Assignment?” Vyers asked.

The sound of a gunshot rang out through the air.

