CHAPTER XVII – SHOTS FIRED



The next sound was a body falling to the ground near the wagon. Jin stood over the fallen body of Loria Marshal.

I felt my heart freeze in my chest. I turned and raised my sword, preparing to charge.

Kathy shook and managed to wrench herself free from Marissa’s grip, then spun and kicked Marissa backward with surprising force.

With a laugh, Kathy reached into a pouch at her side and pulled out a bell. Without hesitation, Jin raised his pistol and fired twice more.

Both bullets hit Kathy straight in the chest. Her Sunstone-level shroud absorbed some of the impact, but not enough.

Her shield sigil cracked.

I charged at Jin. Sera stepped in my way. “Corin, stop.” “Jin is—”

“Disposing of both traitors,” Jin replied. Then he knelt down and helped Loria to her feet.

Loria shook her head. “Resh it. How’d you know I was there?”

I looked at Loria again with my attunement active. Her aura was still Quartz, hard to discern.

But she was carrying fewer items on her belt than I’d seen before. Two, rather than three.

She has an item with the same function as Jin’s attunement, I realized. That’s why I wasn’t even thinking about her. And it was why he was able to pick up on it.

“My secret,” Jin replied. “Sorry I hit you that close.”

She shook her head. “No problem. Didn’t hurt. Rubber bullets?” Jin nodded. “Indeed.”

Kathy grumbled and set her bell down. “Bah. We were so close.”

I turned to Kathy. “So, you were another Enchanter, and you worked with Loria — an Elementalist — to make the explosive devices?”

“Got it in one.” Kathy sighed. “Were we that obvious?”

“Not at all.” I shook my head. “You two did great. Can you confirm if there are any other traitors in the group?”

Kathy shook her head. “It was just the two of us. Good job figuring us out.”

I breathed a sigh of relief.

I couldn’t trust her completely, but since she was eliminated from the test, I figured she didn’t have much motivation to continue deceiving us.

Marissa gave Kathy a concerned look. “You two aren’t going to be failed out, are you?”

Kathy shook her head. “Probably not. We managed to blow up one of the wagons, after all. And we were pretty badly outnumbered.”

“What do we do now?” Patrick asked.

“Probably wait here for the Soaring Wings to pick these two up, then keep going. We’ve already found two traitors. And if Kathy is lying and there any more are in the group, they’re badly outnumbered at this point.” I offered.

“We wanna do anything else to check people while we’re stuck ‘ere?” Marissa asked.

“Don’t know if we can. Unless Roland has any spells that might be of use?” I turned toward Roland.

“Nothing relevant, I’m afraid. If I knew any truth detection spells, I would have been using them a long time ago. And it’s not like there’s a ‘detect spider division’ spell.”

“Okay, let’s take this time to rest, then,” Sera suggested. “Maybe getanother meal. It’s late.”

We took Sera up on that suggestion. Everyone ate together, even the two students we’d already eliminated. There were no hard feelings — they were just doing their assignment. In fact, things seemed less tense now that the conflict had been resolved.

After the meal break, we pressed on for the remainder of the day. We didn’t quite make it to the settlement by nightfall, though. While Marissa wanted to press on through the rest of the evening, most of us were too exhausted, including the horses.

We made camp just a little way off the trail.

It had been ages since I’d gone camping with a large group. My last “camping” experience was when I’d been teleported out of the spire directly to Keras. I’d spent the night in the middle of the woods with him and my injured allies.

In retrospect, it’s fascinating that Katashi was able to teleport me directly to Keras’ location. Did he know exactly where Keras was, or did he have some kind of anchor directly connected to Keras?It’s probably something specific to Keras, because if Katashi could just teleport to any person he wanted, he would have found Tenjin immediately.

Hrm.

Normally, I would have just pushed those questions into my queue of things to research, but I was trying to break the habit of putting things off. And I needed to be better about taking advantage of the information sources I had available.

“Sera, come with me for a bit.”

We walked behind the wagon, and then retrieved the tents and other heavy items from the Jaden Box. No one asked any questions about where we’d gotten them from. Maybe they assumed we’d been carrying them the whole time, or that they’d been inside the wagon.

If they weren’t going to ask, I wasn’t going to volunteer anything.

We set up the tents, and I asked Sera to talk to me privately inside one of them for a bit. The thin canvas of the tent wouldn’t block that much sound, but we could whisper without looking too suspicious.

“Can I ask you some questions about teleportation?”

Sera rubbed her throat. “Yeah, but I’m not going to be able to talk much.

Been speaking a lot today and my throat is killing me.”

That was worrisome. It was easy to forget that Sera was improving, but she still wasn’t fully healed. I wasn’t sure she’d ever recover completely on her own.

We weren’t far from the Vanreach Mountains right now, and that meant the herbs needed to concoct something to heal her were close by. That was something I wanted to look into, but it wasn’t the right time. As much as I wanted to help her, failing our exam wasn’t an option. Maybe we could investigate it after the exams were over, though, while we were still in the general region.

“Okay, I’ll keep this brief.” I shared my thoughts about how we’d been teleported straight to Keras.

“Hm.” Sera pondered for a moment. “I doubt Keras registered as enough of a priority for Katashi to bother divining his exact location regularly. I think it’s more likely your second guess: an anchor. Which is more worrying for Keras, to be certain, since anchors can be used for much more than just teleporting someone into your general vicinity.”

I nodded. “Maybe when Keras was in prison, Katashi took some of his belongings?”

“Or, even simpler. Katashi could have collected some of Keras’ blood after their fight, just like you did.” Sera rubbed her throat again, wincing.

“Okay. I think that’s a good enough explanation for now. Thanks for the help, Sera.”

She smiled, although her expression was still distorted by pain. “No problem. I’m glad you asked.”

I pondered what I could do about that, and I came up with something mundane. “Let me make you some tea.”

Sera blinked. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen you make tea. Or cook anything.

Ever.” She laughed, but it quickly transitioned into a cough. “I’ll make Patrick do the real work. Come on.”

We slipped out of the tent. I did, in fact, have herbs for tea with me. “Patrick, can you start a campfire? I want to make some tea.”

He nodded. “Sure, that’s easy. Help me gather some stones to make a ring first, though, so it doesn’t spread.”

“That may be unwise,” Roland interjected. “Starting a fire is going to makea clear signal about our location. If there are still other teams looking to ambush someone, we’d be making ourselves an obvious target.”

“But we’ll be miserable without heat,” Rupert complained. “It’s cold up here. Practically freezing.”

Our group conferred for a bit longer before finally settling on making the fire, but keeping it small. We needed something to cook with in general, and not just for tea.

We also decided to set watch rotations for the evening. Patrick, Marissa, and I would take the first watch, then wake Desmond, Jin, and Rupert for the second. Kyra, Roland, and Sera would be third.

Jordan didn’t take a shift, since he wasn’t really required to help us, just to escort us.

We made the tea, as well as an evening meal, and then the second and third watch groups went to sleep.

As the night drew on, the temperature in the area dropped. As much as I hated to admit it, Rupert had a point. Without the fire, we would have been in awful shape.

Patrick, Marissa, and I huddled close to the flame. It wasn’t the ideal position for keeping watch, but we were freezing, and we had weapons close at hand. We agreed that one of us would stand up and patrol the area every once in a while.

“So...cold...” Patrick murmured.

We shivered in agreement, but the boredom of just sitting around bothered me more than the temperature. I didn’t like just sitting without an activity.

“We should do something,” I suggested.

Marissa shook her head. “Don’t think I’m movin’ from here, Cadence. Fire is all that keeps this tolerable.”

“Maybe we can tell stories?” Patrick suggested.

“Wouldn’t mind hearin’ a few, but I don’t got much to tell,” Marissa admitted sadly.

“You used to read all the time, Patrick,” I recalled. “You got any good stories?”

“Tons! Let’s see...” Patrick grinned. “Okay, I’ve got one. Let me tell you about Symphony, the Lady of Thieves...”

***No one attacked us in the middle of the night. I admit that I was almost disappointed. Fighting always warmed me up.

Still, I enjoyed hearing Patrick’s stories, and Marissa seemed even more enraptured with them.

A group of Soaring Wings members met up with us the next morning, resplendent in their copper-colored plate armor and white tabards.

While the armor style was antiquated — dueling tunics were in favor these days, since they didn’t restrict mobility as much as traditional armor — there was still something impressive about seeing someone wearing heavy armor.

And given that dueling tunics and shrouds didn’t offer the same degree of protection against close-range attacks, the armor still had a degree of utility to it, especially against monsters with close-ranged attacks.

We exchanged a few words, then the Soaring Wings escorted Loria and Kathy away from our camp. I felt a little sorry that they’d been eliminated from the test so soon, even if they were up against us. They’d been in a difficult position.

With that done, we packed our equipment and continued the trek toward the settlement.

The settlement was better developed than I’d envisioned. I’d pictured a circle of tents and wagons, but they’d built a wooden wall around the whole place, and sections of the wall had runes on them. They even had a crude gate, which swung open as we approached.

Six students approached from the open gate, putting us on our guard. I recognized the leader — Curtis Maddock, my dorm chief. I hadn’t seen him much since I’d moved into Derek’s manor. He gave me an odd look, probably because he’d assumed I’d been kicked out of the school or something.

“I’ll take care of this,” Kyra declared, moving to the front of the group.

We’d never settled on who would be our spokesperson, but no one complained. Sera would have been a good candidate under normal circumstances, but her voice was clearly still bothering her.

“Who goes there?” Curtis shouted. I could see that his group was equally tense, hands hovering near weapons.

“Just a resupply group from Valia,” Kyra explained. “We have crates of dried meat, vegetables, blankets, and other odds and ends.”

Curtis folded his arms. “We were told that there would be two wagons.”

“Saboteurs destroyed one of our wagons before we got here. Tails of Orochi traitors,” Kyra spit into the dirt near her, emphasizing the effect.

That drew a series of sympathetic nods from the other students, and a couple of them visibly relaxed.

“Okay,” Curtis explained, “We’re going to have to check through your crates before you go in. I’m sure you’re exhausted and want to get inside, but as you said yourself, saboteurs have been a problem. We need to make sure you’re not sneaking anything dangerous in there.”

I heard a groan from Rupert, but no one actually complained. “That won’t be a problem. We’ll just wait nearby,” Kyra offered.

“Stay in sight, and keep your hands off your weapons,” Curtis instructed.

It took them a few minutes to retrieve a pry bar from somewhere in the camp, then the better part of an hour to go through all the boxes and catalogue the contents. We spent most of that time chatting with each other, while keeping an eye on the other students to make sure they didn’t ambush us. It seemed unlikely that the Tails of Orochi would have taken over the entire camp, but we didn’t want to discount it as a possibility.

“You’re cleared to go in, but the commander is going to want to see you.

He’ll get you work assignments and tell you where to camp. Follow me.”

Curtis led us inside to the commander...who was, unfortunately, even more familiar than my former dorm chief.

“When I heard that a resupply team had arrived with half the expected supplies, I should have known who to expect.” Lord Teft addressed us with a cynical tone that felt reminiscent of the first few days of class. Having had a year of exposure to his demeanor, however, I knew that at least a portion of this was deliberate exaggeration.

He’d eschewed his usual tailored suit for a military uniform, replete with ranking signifiers and other honors. I didn’t know how much of that was real and how much was a part of the character he was playing for this scenario. In fact, I didn’t really know much about his background in general.

It didn’t matter at the moment.

Kyra snapped to attention with surprising briskness. “Reporting for duty, sir.”

Most of the rest of us managed to mimic her change in stance after a short delay.

Teft returned our hesitant salutes, then shifted to a leisurely pose and waved a hand. “At ease. And tell me what happened.”

Kyra nodded, then hesitated. “Think Cadence would be better to fill you in, sir.”

“Which one?” Teft asked.

I sighed, stepping forward. Sera wasn’t in any condition to chat.

I filled him in on what had happened, including crediting Jin with doing most of the work in neutralizing the traitors.

“Well, at least someone has some initiative around here.” Teft turned to Jin, which in turn reminded the rest of us that Jin was still with the group. Even knowing what his attunement did, I still had a hard time remembering he was present unless I actively focused on him. “Mister Dalen, is it?” I realized that they’d met before, but Jin wasn’t in our dueling class, so Teft didn’t know Jin as well. Teft continued, “I’ll be assigning you to something special. Stay behind when I dismiss the others.”

Jin tilted his head downward in silent acknowledgement.

Teft turned back to the rest of us. “As much as it pains me to admit it, the rest of you are combat veterans compared to most of the people in this camp. As such, I will be assigning you to some of our tasks that have a higher risk of encountering enemy forces. I take it there are no objections?”

He didn’t wait long enough for anyone to actually raise objections. “Good. I have a couple assignments that happen to be rather urgent.” Teft looked our group over, assessing. “Kent, Vyers, Dyson, and... Roland, you’re on monster hunting duty. Master Jaldin, you will continue overseeing them. Master Maddock, please escort them to the scouting area. Master Chord will provide them with further instructions.”

It took me a moment to realize that Teft still had never learned Roland’s last name, after teasing him during the first day of class. I had a little internal chuckle about that.

Rupert, Desmond, Roland, and Kyra fell into line behind Curtis and headed to another part of the camp.

He’s splitting us back into our initial teams, I realized. That would have been more of a relief before we’d found the traitors. Now, it was almost disappointing. I wasn’t fond of Desmond, but the other two were serious fighters. I wouldn’t have minded having a Shaper and a Shadow with our group for whatever we were up against next.

“Miss Callahan, Miss Cadence, and Master Wayland. You will be going on a rescue mission. Are you familiar with the Temple of Fire?”

Patrick could barely contain his glee. “The...You mean, that Temple of Fire, sir? The temple where Soulbrand was forged?”

Teft rolled his eyes. “No, I mean one of the other Temples of Fire. Yes, Wayland. We’re only a few miles away.”

We weren’t actually a few miles away from anything of the sort, but I had an idea of where this was going. Since our scenario involved being a part of a settlement in the Unclaimed Lands, apparently our simulated location must have been somewhere near the Temple of Fire.

Marissa was frowning, though. The Unclaimed Lands weren’t something we’d gone over in a lot of detail in school yet. I knew about the Temple of Fire because it had come up frequently in my studies of the spires. I took a moment to explain for her benefit. “The Temple of Fire is one of the six elemental temples in the Unclaimed Lands. They’re similar to the spires, but much older. Some people believe the goddess used the elemental temples as blueprints for building the spires.”

“Indeed, Master Cadence. But I was asking Master Wayland,” Teft cut in. I grimaced. “My apologies.”

“Since you both failed to explain the most important parts, however, that falls to me.” Teft folded his arms. “The elemental temples house the prime crystals. These crystals were some of the earliest sources of magic for humanity, during the pre-Attunement period. They remain possible sources of magical power, but reaching one is more difficult than a Judgment, both due to the locations of the temples and the necessary trials to reach the crystal itself. That, and of course, politics. Because of all these factors, they have fallen out of common use.”

“But we sent in a group to try to reach one,” I surmised.

“Correct. Much like the spires, a group of six is required to enter. Unlike the spires, however, the temples only allow six people inside at a time total. They cannot support two or more groups at a time.”

I could see where this was going. “Someone didn’t come out.”

Teft nodded to me. “We sent a full group of six in an effort to begin cataloguing the rooms and making their way to the crystal. A few hours ago, a return bell was used... and half of the team was within the area of effect. The team only had a single bell.”

“Meaning the other three people are marooned inside,” Patrick concluded. “That’s horrible!”

“Until your arrival, we did not have any group that I felt was potentially capable of a rescue operation. The temple is dangerous enough for a group of six. Your skills may prove sufficient, however.”

Is...Teft complimenting us?Wait, no, I’m not part of the group that is going. Everything makes sense again.

“Any further questions? If not, time is of the essence. The longer we wait, the less likely you are to find any survivors inside.”

I had several, but Sera spoke up first. “Begging your pardon, Commander, but I don’t believe the group assignment is ideal.”

We all turned to look at her.

“Oh? How so?” Teft folded his arms.

“You should send Corin instead of me,” Sera’s tone was pained, but not because of her throat.

“Care to explain why you believe I should be sending an Enchanter — who could be helping to reinforce our settlement’s defenses, as I’d planned — instead of a Summoner?”

Sera sighed, took a moment, and then found her words. “This isn’t easy for me to admit, but I’m not in the best shape for combat duty, sir. As I believe you’re already aware, I have a long-term injury that I’ve been recovering from. I believe it may interfere with my ability to complete this assignment.”

Teft raised an eyebrow. “I’ve seen you participate in combat since then, Miss Cadence, and as I recall you were quite stubborn about it. When I gave you the chance to opt out before, you chose to fight.”

“I’ve...had a chance to reevaluate that, sir.” Sera took another breath. “The last time I pushed myself seriously, my condition got worse. My safe mana threshold went down for a couple weeks.”

I...hadn’t realized that. She must have been talking about the last simulated spire test, where we’d fought Professor Meltlake. I’d known she’d pushed herself hard, but... that was terrifying. Her safe mana capacity decreasing implied that she’d caused herself more permanent damage. That wasn’t acceptable for a mere test.

She must have recovered since then, because I’d tested her mana capacityafterward and it was getting higher again. Still, I didn’t know how much extra work that had meant for her, or how many extra treatments from Sheridan she’d needed.

She hadn’t told me.

I wasn’t angry about that, but I was a little concerned.

“You are aware that there could be consequences for turning down an assignment, Miss Cadence?” Teft actually sounded concerned.

“Yes, sir. If I accepted the assignment, I believe I would not only be jeopardizing my own long-term ability to use my attunement, but potentially the success of the mission.”

Teft nodded slowly. “You have made a prudent decision.” He paused, then added. “Very well, I will find another team to handle this.”

Patrick blinked. “Wait. The rest of us could still go. We’ve still got three people!”

Teft shook his head. “Without Miss Cadence, your group would be ill- equipped for the Temple of Fire. Her expertise with ice magic is the reason I chose your group. Without her, you don’t have the skills you need.”

I hesitated. “That’s not...entirely true, Commander.”

Teft turned to me. “Oh? Have you somehow acquired a third attunement you haven’t told me about?”

“I still have a sword imbued with ice magic. If you recall, I showed it to you the first day we met.”

I was avoiding references to “class” because everyone else was. Everyone must have decided that talking directly about the school would have broken the immersion of the scenario.

It was for exactly that reason that I’d taken a gamble on this specific suggestion. I’d been told that I wasn’t allowed to use Selys-Lyann in future tests, because I’d nearly killed myself with it.

I hoped that since we were supposed to treat this scenario like a “real” expedition into the Unclaimed Lands, Teft would let that rule slide.

Teft narrowed his eyes at me, which wasn’t a promising response. “As I recall, that sword is extremely dangerous. Cursed, they say. Am I to understand that you brought it with you?”

I nodded. “Yes, sir. It’s packed away safe.” That was true, at least. It was in the Jaden Box.

He drew in a breath, looking uneasy. “I am prepared to allow you to take Miss Cadence’s place and use the sword...under the condition that you will be extremely cautious with using it.”

I bowed my head in thanks and relief. “Of course, sir.”

“Good. I will be assigning someone to shadow your group and wait for you outside the temple. They will inform me if you fail to return within the designated time frame.”

“Which is?” Marissa asked.

“You will have three hours to enter the temple, rescue the other team, and return.”

I felt my jaw tense. That wasn’t a lot of time to work with. “I have some questions, before we go.”

“Of course you do.” Teft sounded exasperated, but I expected he was actually pleased. In spite of his dismissive demeanor, he appreciated planning. “Proceed.”

“Do you have a map of the section that’s already been explored, or any other details?”

Teft shook his head. “I do not.”

I nodded, expecting that. “The three people who made it out. Can we talk to them?”

That actually seemed to catch Teft off-guard, and he made the slightest hint of a smile. “Sadly, no. They’ve...already been sent back to Valia for medical treatment.”

Meaning he hadn’t prepared any actors to play that part in this portion of the exercise. I think I might have earned some good will from asking, though.

“Do you have any additional resources you could loan us to ensure our success? Healing potions, fire resistance equipment, maybe a return bell?”

Teft paused to consider. “I’ll get you a return bell. We don’t have any of the rest of that on-hand, and it would take too long to prepare. You need to get moving as soon as you are prepared.”

That was an acceptable result. “I believe that’s all I need, then.” “Very well. Those of you who are going to the temple, go prepare anysupplies you plan to bring, and leave anything unnecessary behind with me. I’ll watch it while you’re gone, and you can make camp afterward. In the meantime, I’ll give Miss Cadence and Master Dalen their assignments.”

We exchanged a few words with Sera and Jin, then headed to do that.

I went inside the wagon, then opened the Jaden Box. “Retrieve: Selys- Lyann. Store: Transference Sword.”

I didn’t want to carry two swords at the same time, it was just too cumbersome.

It felt good to sheathe Selys-Lyann at my side again, although I admit I was a bit nervous about using it in a test again. In spite of suggesting it myself, I knew there were serious risks.

After that, I checked through my gear, keeping only essential climbing supplies on me. I’d leave everything else with Teft, as he’d instructed. Storing everything in the Jaden Box would have been easy, but it would have also been suspicious. He probably knew I still had the box, but I wasn’t going to remind him if I could avoid it.

We headed back to Teft after everyone had finished picking what they wanted to bring.

I pulled Sera to the side for a moment before we left, though. “That was brave of you.”

Sera looked away, ashamed. “Brave? To throw you into a dangerous situation, because I can’t handle it?”

I shook my head. “In your place, I don’t think my pride would have let me turn the assignment down. You made the hard choice to say you weren’t in any condition to fight. That was the right call.” I hesitated, then added, “I...didn’t realize you’d gotten worse after the last test.”

“I didn’t want to worry you.”

“Well, you worried me now...but we’ll deal with it. Just be honest with me if it happens again, okay?”

She frowned, then nodded. “Okay. We’ll talk about this more some other time. Stay safe, okay? Don’t do anything reckless.”

“What, like bring a cursed sword into a school exam? That doesn’t sound like something I’d do.”

Sera gave me a weak chuckle. “I mean it, though.”

“Don’t worry. I’m always careful. What could possibly go wrong?”

