CHAPTER XVIII – EVERYTHING THAT COULD POSSIBLY

GO WRONG

We picked up a return bell from Teft. After that, he sent us on the path toward the Temple of Fire. A second-year student led the way, while another student followed us, presumably to keep an eye on how much time we were taking inside.

Marissa was clearly nervous. “Mind givin’ me a bit more ‘bout this place?I’m not real familiar.”

She was probably understating that. I doubted she’d even heard of the place before Teft had mentioned it. I would have been pretty nervous in her place, too.

Patrick chimed in before I had a chance. He was bristling with excitement. “So, this is the place where they forged Soulbrand, one of the Six Sacred Swords. It’s really, really old. Like thousands of years.”

“But what’re we up against? It just like another spire?”

“It’s smaller,” I explained, “And you should expect most of the challenges to be fire themed.”

“Or something related to fire, like metal or lava,” Patrick added. “Maybe even lightning.”

Marissa frowned again. “Not sure how much I can do ‘bout that sort of thing.”

“Aww, you’ll be fine.” Patrick nudged her. “You’ll just punch the lightning out or something. You’ve done that before!”

She brightened a bit. “I suppose I have, haven’t I?”

“Right before you punched that smug look clean off Rupert’s face!” Patrick laughed, then looked from side to side, likely checking to make sure Rupert wasn’t in hearing range. He wasn’t — we were already well outside of the settlement at that point.

We walked a bit further in relative quiet before Marissa posed another question. “If these things are older than the spires, who made ‘em?”

Patrick frowned. “I guess the goddess just made them earlier?”

I shook my head. “Unlikely. The first sightings of Selys were only about four hundred years ago, right before the spires themselves appeared. The most common theory is that there were older gods here thousands of years ago, and that they left or died out.”

“Tyrant must have gotten ‘em, rest their souls,” Marissa said solemnly.

I was getting progressively less confident that the Tyrant in Gold had the kind of role in the world that Aspectists believed, but I didn’t want to get into an argument. “Maybe,” I replied, “The people of Sytennia believe they just went to sleep.”

“Oh, I remember hearing a bit about that when we were kids. Mom and Dad said to forget about it, though.” Patrick looked down. “And my teachers always got upset when I asked about things like that. Told me that I should pray on it or read the scriptures. But the scriptures don’t talk about the elemental temples at all.”

I felt a rare surge of anger and struggled to maintain a neutral expression. Shutting down children who had questions was the opposite of what a teacher should be doing.

Before I could get into a rant, though, Marissa changed the line of discussion. “You know anything specific we should be keepin’ our eyes out for?”

That was a reasonable thing to discuss, so I let my frustration burn away and refocused on the topic at hand. “There’ll probably be a single powerful monster just before the room with the crystal, similar to a spire guardian. I don’t know if the other group got that far, but if they did, we’re in for a serious fight. Most stories indicate that it’s a phoenix, but I’ve also heard that a dragon might be a possibility.”

Marissa nodded. “A phoenix, eh? That might be tricky. Hard to keep them down for any length of time. That might be why Teft wanted us to bring ice magic. That’s real effective against them.” She seemed a little morecomfortable now that we were talking about specific monsters.

We continued discussing possible fire monsters we could run into, as well as other general strategies, until we reached our destination.

There was no obvious “temple”. Instead, we reached the base of a mountainside — presumably the Vanreach Mountains — and found a tremendous metal doorway.

The exterior of the door was carved with intricate artistry. They weren’t runes; more like pictographs for an unfamiliar language. I activated my attunement, but the doors didn’t glow. I could see a hint of light from beyond the doorway, however.

“I’ll wait outside for three hours, then I’ll report your failure,” the student who’d been following us explained. I tried not to respond poorly to how certain he sounded that things would play out that way.

I glanced to Marissa and Patrick. “You two ready to go?” They made noises of acknowledgement.

I drew Selys-Lyann. “I’ll lead the way. Marissa, you’re on my left, so I don’t hit you by accident. Patrick, stay behind the two of us. I want you to be ready to reshape fire out of the way if we hit any traps.”

We shifted into formation, then approached the door.

The student who’d been leading us placed a metallic cube into a slot in the door, and I heard a click. Then I heard the grinding of gears, and the doors slid open.

The light that I’d seen through the crack in the doorway intensified as the doors opened, but not purely from magic. The passageway led into a hallway lit with dozens of torches, making it almost blindingly bright.

I passed Patrick the return bell. “You’d better hold onto this, since Marissa and I will need our hands free to fight.”

He accepted the bell, then we headed inside.

The initial hallway didn’t feel anything like a spire. It was just a well-lit cavern entrance, more reminiscent of what Marissa and I had encountered during her test.

With that memory in mind, I watched the floor carefully as we advanced. I didn’t want to hit any more webs, or trip-wires, or any sort of deadly trap tiles.

That meant, of course, that I wasn’t looking up.

The first thing I noticed was a shadow thickening, then Marissa shoved me.

I hit the wall just before a giant centipede hit the ground where I’d been standing. It was almost as big as I was and heavy enough to crack the ground on impact.

Marissa punched it hard enough to hurl it backward.

I heard a “click” as the centipede landed, then spears jetted out of the floor beneath it, impaling the creature.

Oh, there’s the floor trap I’ve been looking for.

The centipede struggled for a moment to break free from the spears, then Patrick blasted it with a bolt of lightning, and it fell still.

“Thanks,” I offered Marissa.

She smiled. “Gotta keep your feet light and your arms lighter.” I wasn’t exactly sure what that meant, but I nodded anyway.

We proceeded a little more cautiously after that, checking both the floorand the ceiling.

We had to hug the wall to get past the centipede, and getting that close to it was a little disgusting.

Where do the test administrators even find monsters like this? Never mind, I don’t want to know.

After that, the next thing we noticed wasn’t a trap, but the growing heat. Outside, we’d been at the border of a snow-tipped mountain range. It wasn’t snowing at our level of altitude, but it was still cold.

Every few steps, this place was getting warmer. By the time we’d passed the centipede, it felt more like spring weather.

Another dozen steps and it was summer.

By the time the natural cavern walls started to give way to worked stone bricks, it felt like we were near a hearth.

We reached another doorway, and then transitioned into something that looked more like I’d have initially expected. The next chamber was a square room of cut stone with a single central pillar. That pillar had a fist-sized red crystal in the center.

There were torches in the corners of the room. Three out of the four werelit.

There were three doorways: the entrance, one straight ahead, and one toour right. All of the doors were open.

Near the pillar I saw a pair of lion-like monsters with fierce horns. I couldn’t identify them at a glance, but they looked formidable. They were, however, lying unmoving on the ground, covered in wounds.

“The temple hasn’t completely reset,” I mused aloud. “The first team will have already solved some of these rooms. That’s going to make things a little easier, but since there were still dangers in the entry hall, it’s going to be tough to know which places are completely clear.”

We moved cautiously into the chamber. Marissa kicked one of the lion-like monster bodies, just to be sure it was dead. It didn’t move. “Shouldn’t these have vanished if they’re dead?” She blinked. “Come to think of it, the centipede didn’t disappear, either.”

“Temple monsters aren’t like spire ones,” Patrick explained. “I don’t think they turn into crystals.”

“Huh. Wonder why that is.”

I was curious, too, and I had theories...but this wasn’t the time for that discussion. “Patrick, I see an unlit torch, and my climber instincts are telling me that’s a problem. Can you handle that?”

“If the other group didn’t light it, there might be a reason for that,” Marissa suggested. “Maybe they had to be lit in a certain order? The doors are already open. Lighting something might close them, or trigger a trap.”

I frowned. I didn’t like leaving a torch unlit on a visceral level, but I agreed with her. “Okay. We’ll keep it in mind, but we’ll leave it as-is for now. Let’s check the right doorway.”

I heard a whir as I approached the doorway. I jumped backward just in time to avoid getting smashed by a huge metallic sphere that swung out of the doorway.

That’s...weirdly familiar.

I’d nearly been crushed by a similar pendulum trap during my Judgment.

Ah, memories.

After backing away to a safe distance, I got a better look at the room beyond the doorway. There were several swinging spheres, similar to the room I’d seen in the spire, but this room had a notable difference.

The room’s floor wasn’t stone. Instead, it was a metallic grate, divided into four sections. Periodically, jets of fire would blast upward from one of the sections to incinerate anything above them.

My first thought was to try to find the runes to disable the traps, but I checked with my attunement, and I couldn’t see them from outside the room.

There were two more pathways from that room. One was straight across from us, and the other was on the left side. The doorway across from us was open, but the one on the left was closed. The closed door was solid stone, which was a little strange. It also had a keyhole.

There were a couple stone outcroppings right in front of each doorway.

They looked large enough to stand on safely, but they’d be tough to reach.

I remembered how Keras had handled the pendulum room in the spire. We didn’t have the same sword skills he did, but his solution was an easy one, and it would eliminate a good part of the danger.

“Marissa, do you think you’d be able to cut through those spheres?”

She frowned. “Haven’t had much luck with cutting metal. It’s tougher than stone. I could probably manage it if they were standin’ still, but it’d while. Can’t do it while they’re movin’ at that speed, wouldn’t get a clean cut. Maybe just the chains that’re holdin’ ‘em?”

I considered that, then shook my head. “Too much of a risk that one of the spheres will fall on the grates. Those things don’t look like they can support too much weight, and it might break that part of the floor.”

“That really a problem, though? I think we could just hop across if the traps were gone.”

I tried to judge the distance to the exits — it was probably about twenty feet. With my ring, I could make it easily. Patrick could levitate. Marissa could jump almost as far as I could, even without the ring.

It was possible, but I still felt like it was a bad solution. “Let’s check the other room while we think.”

We checked the other doorway from the entrance room.

That room was more straightforward. The room was circular, with three piles of human-looking bones on the floor.

Also, the bones were on fire.

“Hope that isn’t the team we’re supposed to be rescuing,” Patrick remarked.

Marissa shot him a shocked look, but I just laughed.

“The door beyond it is open,” I pointed at the single door on the other side, “So they made it further. Those are probably some kind of animated bone monsters. Betting they’ll stand up when we get inside.”

Marissa took on a contemplative look, then asked, “You boys ever do any bowling?”

Two minutes later, we enacted the plan.

As soon as the pendulum swung out of the doorway, Patrick pointed a hand at it. “Levitate.”

The pendulum paused in its swing, then began to descend more slowly.

This was expected — we knew it was probably too heavy for Patrick to hold it completely.

I swung Selys-Lyann, projecting a wave of ice to hit the chain, freezing it solid.

Marissa leapt from the ground, swinging a blade-aura from her hand and smashed the frozen chain.

The pendulum slowly descended slowly to the floor.

The three of us worked together to roll the sphere to the entrance to the other room.

“Ready?”

We lined it up.

Patrick pointed again. “Levitate.” He couldn’t lift it completely, but that lowered the effective weight, making the sphere much easier to move.

Marissa lowered herself, braced against the sphere, and then shoved. Crunch.

The sphere crashed right into the first bone pile, mashing the skeleton to pulp.

The three of us let out a combined cheer.

Then the other two bone piles began to rise from the ground. We’d known that might happen.

“My turn.” I stepped in front of Marissa, swinging Selys-Lyann in a wide arc. The frozen shockwave that emerged hit both skeletons, extinguishing aportion of the fire around them.

That wasn’t enough to stop the bones from coming together and beginning to lurch toward us, but it had extinguished a good portion of the flames.

Each of the skeletons formed a blazing sword between their hands.

Their eye sockets burned with menace. Or maybe fire. It was probably just more fire, to be honest.

Marissa went left, while I went right.

I swung Selys-Lyann. It cut right through the skeleton’s flame sword without resistance, then smashed into the skeleton’s ribs. The latter part wasn’t very effective, though. Slashing weapons weren’t great against skeletons.

The skeleton fell backward from my strike and its own counterattack fell far short.

Marissa lunged at her skeleton, but had to fall back when it jabbed at her stomach. She had a disadvantage in reach, and that meant she had to wait until she found an opening.

Patrick made her one. As he pointed his hand, the flame sword the skeleton near her was carrying twisted, then shrank to the length of a dagger.

The skeleton swung it at Marissa again, or rather at the air in front of her. It didn’t seem to realize that its weapon had gotten shorter, and it missed entirely.

She closed the distance and punched its skull right off.

I dodged another swing from the skeleton that I was fighting, then swung upward at the skeleton’s sword arm, severing it at the wrist.

It charged. I side-stepped and hit it in the neck. That didn’t actually cut all the way through, but it fell to the floor anyway.

The skeletons ceased to move. We hit them a few more times just to be sure.

“Wanna drop some spheres on the other two?” Marissa asked with a grin.

I didn’t like the idea of wasting Patrick’s mana or more time, but honestly, it was kind of fun. And more importantly, it was a good way to get rid of the pendulums.

“Let’s do it.”

Clearing the remaining pendulums was a little trickier, since they wereinside the room. That didn’t pose any problems for Patrick — he could levitate things at a distance — but it meant that Marissa briefly had to go inside the room to cut them down.

We took a minute just to memorize the timing on the flame jets coming from the floor.

The flames go for about three seconds, then off for three seconds before it rotates to the next section. It goes clockwise, then stops at the top-left corner and switches directions. Then it switches directions again when it gets to the top right.

Not as simple as if it was just rotating one way, but not particularly difficult, either. Still, I’m glad I’m not the one going in there.

“Patrick, be ready to deflect the fire for Marissa if she misses her timing.” Patrick nodded seriously.

Marissa didn’t miss, though. The moment Patrick cast his levitation on the closest pendulum, she was moving.

I launched my shockwave, hit the next chain, and she smashed it apart.

Then she landed, kicked the sphere toward us, and followed it back to the main room with seconds to spare.

We repeated the process until all the pendulums were clear.

“We going through the skeleton room first or the pendulum room?” Patrick asked.

“After all that?” Marissa pointed to the pendulum room with a serious expression.

“Right. Of course.”

We made our way across the pendulum room. The grates made me nervous, but now that we knew the timing, it wasn’t particularly dangerous.

Still, I felt a chill spread-across my sword arm as we moved to the opposite doorway. It took me a moment to realize it wasn’t my imagination — a thin layer ice was starting to creep down my hand and wrist.

I flexed my hand, grimaced, and tried to command the ice to move out of the way.

Nothing happened. I didn’t have the ability to shape ice. And if whatever was causing the ice to spread was listening to my thoughts, it didn’t give me any response.

I sheathed the sword. Only then did the ice begin to melt away.

I need to be careful about using this too much. And I really need to figure out how it works.

We arrived in the safe spot at the entrance to the next room.

We’d chosen the doorway that was already open, with the hope that we’d find the team we were supposed to rescue inside.

We had no such luck.

The room’s contents were simple – two streams of flowing lava, and in between them, a single treasure chest.

The treasure chest was already open. “Is that thing empty?” Marissa asked.

“Looks like,” I asked. “Patrick, float it here?” Patrick nodded. “No problem. Levitate.”

He moved the treasure chest to us.

I had a moment of panic at the realization that it could be a mimic — a monster disguised as a treasure box — and re-drew my sword as it approached.

Fortunately, it didn’t bite.

Sometimes an empty box is just an empty box.

“Other team must have already been through here. Let’s check the other door.”

The other door in the pendulum room was closed, but we surmised that the empty box had probably held the key to it. We made our way to the door easily and checked, finding it unlocked. That didn’t prove what the contents of the box had been, but it still gave us another path to check.

I opened the stone door.

This room was very different.

For one thing, the ceiling was about thirty feet up.

For another, there was a steel statue in the center of the room. The statue’s head almost reached the ceiling. I could see some writing on the wall behind the statue, but I didn’t get a chance to read it.

“Ack,” Patrick reflexively took a step back. I caught him before he steppedback onto the grate just a moment before another blast of fire came up behind us. “Sorry, sorry! That’s just...uh, big.”

And it was moving. The statue knelt down, opening a palm toward us.

At first, I thought it might be a friendly gesture of some kind. Maybe everything in here wasn’t trying to kill us.

Then I saw the hole in the center of its hand.

“Resh!” I stepped forward and swung, launching a shockwave of ice.

The blast of flame that emerged from the statue’s hand obliterated the shockwave.

Patrick reacted fast, pushing both hands forward to try to stop the flames.

He only managed to slow them for a moment.

In that moment, Marissa shut the door.

The flames must have impacted the stone, but they didn’t blast through. We all took a few deep breaths.

“Did you see anything other than the giant statue in there?” I asked. “No people,” Patrick replied.

“There was something written on the back wall about three flames lighting the way,” Marissa offered.

She must have great vision to pick all that up from here.

I considered for a moment. “I’m betting this room was just a clue for the three torches in the entry way. We can come back here if we need to...but I’m going to be honest, I don’t think we should try to fight that thing.”

Marissa looked marginally disappointed, but Patrick nodded quickly in agreement.

We made our way back to the entrance, then to the skeleton room. The skeletons were still pinned beneath the spheres and unmoving.

From there, we checked the next chamber. “Soulbrand’s forge,” Patrick whispered in awe.

Lava flowed freely down the walls of the room. Even being a few feet away, the temperature was absurdly hot, almost too difficult to bear. Fortunately, the air within seemed breathable. There was probably an enchantment keeping the space habitable, but just barely.

The room itself was divided into rings, each separated by a section of about two feet of flowing lava.

In the outer ring there was some sort of stone pipe toward the back of the room. Lava flowed freely through it, then into the rings in the floor.

To the side of that chimney, I could see a stack of blacksmithing tools. A huge hammer of blackened metal, tongs, and an apron.

Beyond that fiery ring was a section with a stack of silvery and golden metal bars.

Then there was another fiery ring, and in the center of it, a raised platform with an anvil. And next to that, a raised stone table with some other objects on it. I couldn’t see them clearly from a distance.

Ice was spreading across my hand again. I sheathed Selys-Lyann, tucking my hand under my opposite arm to let it warm up.

“I want to make a magic sword here. I want to make all the magic swords here,” Patrick mumbled.

“Wouldn’t mind a few new toys to play with myself,” Marissa chuckled, “But I don’t think we’ve got time for that.

Patrick looked sincerely dejected.

I cautiously stepped inside to take a closer look. The sections of flowing lava were a danger, but easily avoidable. I didn’t see any monsters or any signs of other traps.

There was another doorway on the left side of the room, but it was completely blocked by a waterfall of lava flowing from an open hole in the ceiling. The door itself beyond was open.

The next thing I noticed was a series of large cracks on the back wall of the room. That was a bit suspicious.

“Marissa?” “Hm?”

I pointed at the cracks. “Want to punch this?”

She frowned. “As much as I do love punchin’ — well, everythin’, really — are you sure there isn’t gonna be a flood of lava behind that?”

I paused. “No. No, I am not. Good point, let’s not do that right now.” “See that up there?” Marissa pointed at the central platform.

I turned my head toward it. “Sure. What about it?”

“I think that raised stone area next to the anvil has a mold.” I raised an eyebrow. “For making a sword?”

She shook her head. “No. For making a key.”

I nodded in understanding. “That’s probably how the other team opened the door to the next room.” I pointed at the door beyond the flowing lava. “But I suppose it could be for a later room, too. Do you know how to use a forge like this?”

Marissa shook her head. “Never did any smithin’ with lava. Wager we could figure something out, though.”

I turned to Patrick. “Take a minute to rest outside. You’ve been doing most of the real work.”

“Thanks,” Patrick replied, clear gratitude in his tone. “Heat is killing me in here.”

Marissa and I hopped across the lava to the middle section, grabbed some metal bars, and then made our way to the raised area in the center. I had to use my ring of jumping to get there, but it still had plenty of mana left, so I wasn’t too worried.

There were, in fact, multiple molds on the top. Including both a key mold and a sword mold. “We making both?” I asked Marissa.

“We’re definitely making both.”

As it turns out, I am a terrible blacksmith.

I initially assumed we were just supposed to heat the metal in the lava, then pour it into the molds.

It turns out that if you heat metal in lava, the metal just melts right there, rather than cooperating and staying in a solid state until you have it in exactly the right position.

It was only at that point that we realized that there were levers on the platform.

And when we moved the levers, a mechanical arm moved the entire platform.

The next thing we discovered was that one of the directions moved theplatform directly into the path of one of the lava falls.

After frantically pushing the lever back in the opposite direction, Marissa and I made running jumps back to the center of the room.

The platform was briefly bathed in molten fire, then moved back to its original position, seemingly unharmed. A few moments later, there was a brief flash of light and the remaining lava on the central platform vanished.

“That went well,” I offered.

Marissa giggled hysterically. “That is my least favorite lever now.”

After a bit more tinkering, we figured out that we could rotate the section with the molds, put a bar of metal into a slot above the mold, then move the platform to a section where the lava would pour from the chimney into a pipe that led to the metal...melting the metal and sending it into the mold.

This probably wasn’t the best solution available. Some of the lava escaped the pipe and nearly got into the key mold, but I managed to freeze it with Selys-Lyann while we moved the platform again.

Then we had a new key.

The second time, we rotated it to make a sword, too. Neither of us knew what the silver or gold metal were, so we made the key out of gold and the sword out of silver.

I froze them both with ice from Selys-Lyann. There was probably a better way to cool them properly, but I didn’t know how. This made them retrievable, at least.

After that, we returned to Patrick and took a break.

“How much time do you think we have left?” Marissa asked. “At least an hour,” I replied.

Patrick looked contemplative. “You think? I figured we were almost out of time.”

I groaned. “I hope not. I need a break.”

I retrieved my flask of endless water from my bag. We drank deeply.

In retrospect, an infinite amount of water might have helped with some of the other problems we’d been running into.

After a brief rest, we made our way back into the room. Patrick held onto the new silvery sword, even though it was an awful weapon. Whatever metal it was made out of was heavy, and it didn’t have a proper grip on it.

Still, he wasn’t allowed to use his Dawnbringer Replica in the tests, so it meant he had a weapon if he needed one. Maybe I should have asked for him to have permission to use that here, but I didn’t want to push my luck.

I could have just given him the transference sword if I’d thought about it, but he seemed happier with this new and shiny one.

We made our way to the lava fall blocking the doorway, then Marissa hopped to the central platform. “Ready?”

We acknowledged, and she hit the levers on the central platform to move it. The platform moved to right below the lava fall, blocking the lava’s flow.

We still had to be cautious, but it made a path to get into the doorway. We followed the hallway to the next room.

In the center was a fountain with clear blue liquid.

We knew exactly what that was. A mana fountain. We were almost at the end.

There were a few possibilities about what that meant. Maybe we’d missed the people were meant to rescue in a previous room, like the one with the giant statue. Or maybe we were supposed to bust down that cracked wall after all, and they would have been beyond it.

Maybe there never were people to rescue.

Or maybe they were those skeletons. That would have been really awkward.

Most likely, though? They were in the final chamber alongside some sort of horrible monster.

We took another break.

We needed it. It was really hot.

Then we made our way to the single door on the opposite side of the room and opened it.

Inside, we saw three fallen human bodies.

One was right near the door, unmoving, with three huge claw marks across his back. He was facing the door.

That told me that the door was probably going to close as soon as we entered, or that whatever had hit him had been fast enough to prevent him from leaving. Either was a concern.

Another was near a different door, this one on the right side of the room. That was a woman, and she was trembling, a bleeding wound across her forehead. She had a golden key in her right hand.

Unfortunately, that right hand was no longer connected to rest of her body.

The final body was near the center of the room. A sword and shield were lying next to him. I couldn’t see any obvious injuries at a distance.

More importantly?I couldn’t see a monster, either.

I turned to the woman that appeared to still be conscious. “We’re here to rescue you. Can you talk?”

She didn’t even turn to acknowledge me. She just stared at her severed hand.

“She’s in a bad way. Don’t think we’re gettin’ much out of ‘er.” Marissa frowned. “Think the monster is going to show up the moment we go in?”

“Seems likely,” Patrick replied.

I frowned. “And the door is probably going to close behind us.”

“Think that key is for the other exit?” Marissa gestured to the other doorway. “We could make a run for it.”

“I think that was her plan.” My eyes narrowed. “And it didn’t go well.” “What’s our plan, then?” Patrick asked.

I briefly debated going back to get one of those giant metal spheres to block the doorway and prevent it from closing behind us, but we were short on time. I didn’t know how a person with a severed arm had survived this long, but I wasn’t going to gamble on taking a few more minutes when she was in that bad of shape.

“We do what they didn’t do.” I glanced to each of them. “We stick together.”

Patrick and Marissa nodded. We stepped inside as a team.

The door slammed shut behind us.

And the injured woman screamed.

The monster descended from the ceiling.

But after our lesson at the entrance, we were a little more ready for a threat from above.

A long tail lashed at Patrick, but he expertly dodged out of the way.

He wasn’t ready for when the tail paused, revealing a snake-like head atop it. The snake head opened its jaws and exhaled a jet of fire toward us.

I countered the flames with a shockwave from Selys-Lyann, but as with the giant, it didn’t have the power to stop the fire completely.

Patrick waved both hands and fired a burst of fire right back at it. The two flame attacks slammed into each other and spread outward, sending burning energy across the room.

Fortunately, it didn’t hit anyone directly.

Marissa jumped and swung a fist at the snake head, but the tail whipped out of the way, and we got a better look at the main body.

It was tremendous, at least twenty feet tall, with the body of a lion and the head of a goat.

“A chimera,” Marissa mumbled, “Of the classic variety.”

The three of us fell back into formation while the chimera’s goat head bleated into the air.

“What do we do against a chimera?” Patrick asked. “Dodge!” Marissa replied in a panicked tone.

The chimera had already started to charge.

We rushed the sides of the room while it closed the distance, trying to trample over us.

That did exactly what we’d been hoping to avoid. We were separated, with Marissa and I on the beast’s right side and Patrick on the left.

The tail swung toward Patrick again. “Marissa, up!” I yelled.

She got my meaning, leaping into the air and aiming for the snake head before it could breathe fire again.

The tail switched directions and opened its mouth hungrily.

“Resh.” Marissa raised her arms to block, but she couldn’t do much against fire breath without fire or ice magic.

The snake-head breathed flame, but only for a moment. Patrick jammed his new sword into the chimera’s side, then stepped back and channeled a bolt of lightning into the metal.

The new sword was ruined, but it had done its job well.

Marissa flew through the flames, her shroud absorbing the brief blast, and slashed a blade-aura covered hand across the tail. Unfortunately, she hit too low, and the scales on the surface of the tail absorbed most of the blow. A flow of blood emerged from the wound, but the head wasn’t severed.

Marissa landed on Patrick’s side of the chimera. I lunged from the opposite side, stabbing it with Selys-Lyann.

The chimera swung toward me faster than I’d expected, hitting me hard with a claw.

I flew backward, losing my grip on the sword and impacting with a wall. That was bad for me, but it was worse for the chimera.

Ice was already spreading from the wound, and it was getting further each moment.

My barrier was badly cracked by the attack, but between that and the two shrouds, I was still in pretty good shape.

Unfortunately, now I had the chimera’s attention, and I was unarmed and backed against a wall.

The chimera turned toward me and prepared to charge.

One, I counted, focusing on my right hand.

“Patrick, I need more height!” Marissa shouted as she charged at the creature from behind.

Two.

The chimera charged, the snake head poised to breathe down on me the moment it got close.

Marissa jumped. “Levitate!” Three.

Marissa flew twice as high this time, swung, and floated downward to the floor.

When she hit the ground, the serpent’s head fell next to her.

The chimera’s remaining head roared as it continued the charge. I jumped, too.

Four. Good enough. Jump.

The ring of jumping carried me upward, and I slammed a fist into the goat’s head, releasing the mana I’d stored in my hand.

And just like that, I punched out a twenty-foot tall chimera.

The creature fell to the ground, insensate. Marissa moved closer and swept her hand across the other neck, finishing the job.

I groaned, rubbing my newly-bruised hand, and retrieved Selys-Lyann. Patrick rushed to the woman in the corner. “It’s going to be okay.” “You...killed it.” She mumbled. “You actually...killed it.”

“It’s okay. We’re going to get you to help.”

We probably should have insisted on bringing a healer, but it was far too late at this point. If we were lucky, maybe the student waiting outside was a Mender.

After sheathing Selys-Lyann, I checked the nearest other person, while Patrick attempted to calm the wounded woman. It was remarkable she was alive and conscious with such a serious injury — I assumed she was probably a Guardian or a Mender herself, and she had done something to stop the severed arm from bleeding.

After a minute of checking, the other two didn’t seem to be conscious or breathing. I was pretty sure they were dead, but I wasn’t an expert.

Either way, we’d found the three people. Marissa and I transported the fallen bodies as carefully as we could to the corner.

“We’re going to get out of here now,” Partrick explained.

“Wait,” the woman insisted. “Crystal...it should be in the next room...”

She looked at her severed hand, still holding the key. “We could still get to the crystal and finish our mission.”

I glanced at the other two. That was a sorely tempting prospect, but it wasn’t our mission. “I’m sorry, we can always come back for the crystal later.” I shook my head. “You and your companions need immediate medical treatment.”

She shook her head. “No, no... The crystal.”

“I’m with Corin here.” Patrick nodded. “Same,” Marissa replied.

“Stay close.” Patrick picked up the severed hand, then rang the return bell. We found ourselves outside.

***The student outside was very, very surprised when six people appeared near him.

“Gaah!”

Ordinarily, I might have laughed, but I was in damage control mode. “We have three injured people here. Are you a Mender, by any chance?”

He shook his head. “No. Summoner. But I can summon something to get a message to town real fast, hold on.”

He summoned an air elemental, which flew to the settlement after receiving his instructions.

Then we waited, dealing with the wounded as best we could. I used a couple Lesser Regeneration spells on each of them, but I doubted it would accomplish much.

I didn’t hold out much hope for the two that were unconscious, but I didn’t say anything for fear that announcing that they were dead might disturb the survivor.

About ten minutes later, she lost consciousness, too.

I put my silver phoenix sigil on her, kicking myself for waiting so long, and then activated it. I explained what I was doing out loud because a part of me knew that none of this was real, as realistic as it was, and I wanted whoever was judging the whole thing to know that I was using a regeneration item on her.

Fortunately, regeneration spells and items weren’t harmful to people that were uninjured. That would have been a little awkward, otherwise.

It was about ten minutes after that the medics arrived, carrying each of the people away. One of them took my sigil off and handed it back to me, explaining they would take it from there.

I was grateful to have my sigil back and pinned it back on.

“Well,” the student assigned to watching us said, “Good work. I didn’t think you’d make it out of there.”

I nodded somberly. I’d have felt better if we’d managed to help all three victims, but two of them seemed beyond help by the time we’d gotten to the last room.

Would that have been possible if we’d made it through the temple faster?I wasn’t sure if I wanted to know the answer to that, but if I got a chance after the test was over, I planned to ask.

***We returned to Teft. Patrick was upbeat in spite of losing his new sword.

I was kicking myself for failing to take any of those weird metal bars with me before we left the forge. I could have stored them in the Jaden Box. In fairness, though, we were clearly being observed and that might have caused me problems later.

We explained what had happened to Teft, and he nodded along. “May I have the key that you forged?”

We handed it to him.

“Good. This may make our next trip into the Temple of Fire considerably easier.” He paused for a moment, then said, “You’re dismissed for the day. Good work.”

We retrieved our things, got directions to where we were supposed to make camp, and got some much needed food and rest.

***We spent the next few days working within the settlement itself. I spent most of my time reinforcing the enchantments on the area, just as Teft had originally intended for me to do.

It felt good to get to use my enchanting skills for something practical that could potentially help protect a big group of people. I knew it was all just a test, but if this was the type of thing that an Enchanter did for the military, I didn’t hate it as much as I’d expected.

Desmond, Kyra, and Rupert met up with us each day after they’d finished their own work. I got used to having them in our camp.

Roland, Jin, and Sera, however, did not. Apparently they’d all ended up being assigned to duties “elsewhere”.

I hoped that meant that Sera and Jin might be going to the Vanreach Mountains, but that turned out to be a bit too optimistic.

When they finally met back up with us almost a week later, Sera explained that they’d simply been on long-distance reconnaissance duty, searching for a good location for another settlement site.

I’d gotten so used to working at the settlement that it almost came as a shock when Teft told us it was time to leave. “Congratulations. You haven’t completely failed at all of your responsibilities here. Now it’s time to go home, and you’ll find out if your performance was good enough to make it to the next year.”

That wasn’t exactly encouraging, but it was as good as I could expect out of Teft.

“One question before we go,” I asked. “Hm?”

“Those people we got out of the temple. Did any of them survive?”

Teft looked stymied for a moment, then he smiled softly and nodded. “Yes.

One of them made it. You did well.”

That might have been an on-the-spot decision, but it still felt good to know that maybe we’d done at least a little bit of good.

I hoped that if we encountered a similar scenario that was real, we’d manage to do even better.

***The whole team was reassembled for the journey back to the train station.

Minus the two people who had already been eliminated, of course.

The trek back was much easier than the way there. We’d gotten used to each other, as well as being outdoors.

I was still anxious to get home, though. I needed a real shower.

We were a little surprised when a group of people met us on the road. They were adults, meaning they weren’t a group of students working for the Tails of Orochi looking to get in a last-minute ambush.

At first, I expected them to be a group of Soaring Wings who were there to escort us back.

But they weren’t wearing armor or the right colors.

They were dressed in Valian military uniforms. Two men and two women, well-equipped.

“Students, attention.” The lead figure stepped forward. He was a broad-shouldered man with brown hair streaked with just a hint of gray.

We didn’t know who they were, but we still knew how to snap to attention. “We are here on behalf of Valia’s Divinatory Division.” He turned towardme. “Corin Cadence, you’re going to need to come with us.”

Divinatory Division?...Meaning military intelligence? That can’t possibly be good.

I inspected them again, activating my attunement.

Their auras were clear, suppressed. That implied that they were all at least Sunstone level, in order to have that level of control. They were carrying some enchanted items, too.

Carnelian-level shield sigils and weapons. That wasn’t terribly surprising— the military would have better standard-issue gear than students — but it was still impressive.

That wasn’t what gave me a pause for concern, though.

I could see the glow of attunement marks on most of the four. The speaker had a heart mark.

Two of the others had marks on their right hands. Unsurprising for combatants.

The last had a mark on her left leg. None of that was a problem.

The worrying part was that the last soldier, with the leg mark, also had a glowing spot in the back of her right shoulder.

That wasn’t a spot for attunements.

But I did remember something else that could be found in that location on someone’s body.

I took a deep breath and stepped forward. “Sir. May I ask what this is about, sir?”

He shook his head. “You will be informed of everything you need to know in private. Please come this way.”

“Sir, may I have a few moments to hand off some key information and items my team will need to complete their assignment before we leave?”

He tensed his jaw. “You have two minutes.”

“Sera, come here.” I waved for her to follow me and headed to the back of the wagon.

“What’s this about, Corin?” Sera asked. “The Tenjin situation?”

I shook my head, shuffling through the bag at my side. “I don’t know. Probably. But that’s not what concerns me. Those aren’t Valian soldiers.”

“What?”

“Or at least, not just Valian soldiers.” I pulled the Jaden Box out of my bag and flipped open the lid. “Retrieve: Empty Vial.”

An empty alchemical vial appeared. I opened the top. “Hold this open.”

She held the box. “Corin...?”

I drew my sword just an inch and ran my index finger across the blade. Then I put my finger over the vial and squeezed.

“Corin! What are you...oh.” She quieted, considering. “You handing me the box along with it?”

I shook my head. “No, it’s not ready for a summoning spell, and I might need the contents. But I want you to hold onto the vial and use it to track me if necessary.”

I stoppered the vial and handed it to her.

She frowned, shoving it in a pouch. “We could probably just track you using me, you know.”

I didn’t want to say that I still wasn’t sure that we were blood related. “You’ll probably get better range with my blood. Just find a Diviner if you don’t see me soon. And if you need to follow me, bring Derek and Keras. These guys are dangerous.” I leaned forward and whispered in her ears. “Servants of the Tyrant.”

Her eyes widened. “Seriously?”

I gave her an apologetic tip of my head.

“You shouldn’t go with them. We should fight.”

I shook my head. “Four adults, each of whom is at least Sunstone.

Probably Citrine or Emerald. No. Most, if not all, of us would die even if all of us were coordinated. And we’re not. We’re a bunch of students.”

“Precautions?” Sera asked. “I’ll have Vanniv watch you from the sky.” I nodded. “Roland can monitor me, too—”

“Time to go, kid!” One of the soldiers yelled. “Keep the team intact. I’ll be back.”

“Let me go with you,” Sera grabbed my arm. “They’ll want me, too, if they know I’m your family.”

I shook my head. “No. Too much of a risk. If my blood dries up, you’re the best method for tracking me down. And there’s no reason to put us both in danger at the same time.”

I pulled free from her. “Gotta go, Sis.” “...Sis?”

I shrugged a shoulder. “It works.”

I turned and walked off to join the soldiers. Together, we marched into the woods.

I was already making my first move.

When I’d left Sera, I hadn’t just cut my finger.

I’d attached a strand of mana to the box, too. And I was going to keep making that strand longer as I walked.

I’d leave myself a trail that I could follow back to the others — or that they could follow to me, if they picked it up. Vanniv’s airborne surveillance would be more effective for that, but I wanted redundancies.

“So...mind telling me what this is about?”

The leader shook his head. “Not yet. You’re not in trouble, though. Don’t worry about failing out of your class. That’ll be taken care of.”

Hah, like that was what I was worried about. “Thanks, that makes me feel a little better.” Completely, blatantly untrue.

We kept walking. What was I doing?The soldiers looked relatively at-ease, but I couldn’t be.

If I had miscalculated, there was a reasonable chance that they were goingto kill me out here. I had no chance of winning against four people of Sunstone level or higher. None.

Should I have taken Sera’s route and tried to rally everyone for a fight?No, I told myself. That would have just gotten other people killed. And I need to know what these people want with me.

We walked for what felt like at least an hour.

They weren’t silent during that time. It was worse than that — they were casual. One of them — Michel, I got from context — talked about wanting to go see a new play that was coming out soon. She was one of the ones with a hand-mark.

Another, Woods, complained about his feet hurting.

Carter wanted Woods to read a book that she was excited about. The leader, Thomas, wanted Michel to go drinking with him.

None of that was important.

I was studying little details when I could.

Michel isn’t wearing a glove. It took me a few minutes to get at an angle where I could take a look without appearing too obvious.

Guardian. Older generation mark, but I think it’s Citrine.

Woods doesn’t just have sore feet. He favors his right leg. He has an old injury. He’s wearing a glove, but from the way he talks, I think he’s a close combat fighter, too. He’s wearing a sword. The others have dueling canes.

Carter is the one with the shoulder mark. Can’t get a good look at it, or at her leg mark.

Thomas is breathing a little more heavily than the others. A cold, maybe. I don’t think I can do anything with that right now. Wait, hold on. He has a second mark on his back. Lungs, then.

That made him more dangerous, but at least it wasn’t another shoulder mark. I didn’t know what those did, but from what Keras had explained, anyone with one would be at least a Citrine or Emerald level threat.

I should have asked for more about what the followers of the Tyrant were capable of.

Now if I had to fight, I was going in virtually blind. And that meant I wasn’t planning to fight at all.

I needed to find every possible alternative. Every means of escape.

The odds of that working narrowed further when we reached our destination. A cabin in the middle of the woods.

Thomas walked up and knocked on the door. A moment later, it opened, and I took a step back.

The young woman on the other side wasn’t wearing a military uniform.

She had long blonde hair, perfectly styled, and wore a fire-red dress.

A casual look would have told me she was dressed for a ball, but a closer inspection of the dress showed that it consisted of threads with a faint metallic sheen. That’s Ironweave, or something like it. The same thing they use to make dueling tunics. She just dyed it red to make it look fancy.

Similarly, she was wearing several pieces of gaudy-looking jewelry, but they weren’t cosmetic. Well, most of the pieces weren’t.

Her necklace glowed with an Emerald-level enchantment, and the two overly-large crystals on the rings on her hands were essence crystals. High- density ones, at least Class 3 or 4. They were probably worth a fortune.

She had a second necklace — or something else — glowing green under the high collar of her dress. That was unusual, considering two enchanted items in the same location tended to interfere with each other. Having two powerful items in the same location was a strange risk. Maybe someone as powerful as she was had a workaround, though.

My conclusion? She was a tremendously dangerous person with a carefully cultivated appearance of indulgence.

And with that, I had a good idea of who I was talking to and how dangerous my situation had become.

“Corin Cadence.” Elora Theas gave me a charming smile, with just the slightest hint of her teeth showing. “I believe you wished to speak to me.”

I have made a terrible mistake.

I didn’t dare step forward, so I chose to bow instead. “Lady Theas. It’s a pleasure to finally make your acquaintance.”

I hadn’t expected for it to be under these circumstances, but that was probably obvious.

Elora returned my bow. “The pleasure is mine. I believe it’s long past time we discussed some issues of mutual interest.” Elora stepped outside. The soldiers parted for her. “Would you like any refreshments? I have a bit of teainside.”

I shook my head. “If you don’t mind, I’d prefer some answers.” “Straight to business, then. You’re very much like your brother in thatregard.”

My heart skipped a beat. “My...brother?”

I was feigning my reaction to a degree. I was reasonably confident she was working with Tristan at one point or another.

But a part of that reaction was real, too. I still didn’t know how to handle the fact that Tristan was both alive and working with some very dangerous people.

“Ah, yes. What do you know about your brother, Corin?”

I narrowed my eyes. “My brother entered the spire five years ago. He failed his Judgment. And he never returned.”

Elora smiled. “You’re making some interesting assumptions there. But you’ve given me an important answer with that, and so I owe you one in exchange. What would you like to know?”

“What are you working on with Tristan?”

She shook her head. “Poorly phrased. Currently, the answer to that would be ‘nothing’. My turn. Your dear mother. How is she?”

“You probably know better than I do.” “That doesn’t help me, dear. Try again.”

I didn’t like this sort of information gathering game. I recognized what she was doing, of course, trying to pry information out of me that I wouldn’t even realize was important. Sera would have been better at countering that sort of strategy.

I had no patience for it.

“I haven’t seen my mother in close to three years. As far as I know, she’s out of the country.”

“Ah. Now that is helpful. Your turn.” I narrowed my eyes.

Fine, if she’s going to play this way, I’m going to ask something I actually care about. “What do you know about what happened with Tristan in the spire?”

“I do think it would be better to ask him that question, don’t you?” I folded my arms. “I don’t exactly have the means to do that.”

“I think we both know that you do, darling.”

She knows about the book. Either that, or she wants to try to gauge my reaction to her statement.

“Very well, an alternate question. What’s the point to all this? Kidnapping me?”

Elora laughed. “Oh, my dear Corin. We’re not doing anything so base as kidnapping you. We’re extracting you.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Extracting? As in, from a dangerous situation?” “Quite. But you owe me two questions now. Let me see... What do youknow about any weaknesses that the visage Katashi might possess?”

One of the soldiers — Woods — shuffled uncomfortably. I considered the question.

How much do I want to give these people?Nothing, I decided almost immediately. Not until I know their motives. But I have to at least make what I’m saying sound convincing, in order to ask other questions myself.

I can make an opportunity out of this, provided they don’t just kill me afterward.

“His healing abilities are weaker than those of his sister, Ferras.” Elora narrowed her eyes. “And how would you know that?” “Because someone suffered an injury that he couldn’t heal, but hesuggested that Ferras might be able to. You’ve asked two questions, now it’s my turn.”

“That was a follow-up. But very well, I’m amused. You may ask.” “Why choose to send people for me right now? You could have just sentme an invitation to meet you sometime after the test.”

She shook her head. “And my dear, sweet Derek would have dissuaded you, or tailed you. No, you’re isolated out here. I can’t have Derek tainting your mind or dashing in to carry you off somewhere.”

I nodded. It was a reasonable assessment.

“You seem nervous. Why?”

I blinked. “Because I was worried I was going to be executed?”

“Oh, dear. No, nothing of the sort, I assure you. You’re far too useful right now.”

The last two words didn’t evade my notice. “Okay, you claim you’re here to ‘extract’ me. Where do you plan to take me?”

“Why, Corin. I’m going to make all your dreams come true.” She clasped her hands together. “I’m taking you to your brother.”

I took a step back. “How? The Serpent Spire is locked.”

Elora laughed. “A second question, but I’ll humor you. Locks have keys, darling. Now, my turn! What has Derek told you about me?”

The jilted lover looking for gossip? No, this is more tactical.

“He misses you.”

“Nonsense, he would never say that.”

I shook my head. “It’s not what he says. It’s what he doesn’t say.”

That was one of those lines that sounded much deeper and more philosophical than it actually was.

Unfortunately, my paltry platitudes were ineffective. “Your assessment, while adorable, is not what I needed. What has he told you about me?”

“Not much,” I admitted. “He told me that you’re a powerful Summoner. I think he used to climb with you. And you used to know Tristan, as children. You and Tristan were working together for a while, and you tried to bring Derek in on your plans. Derek refused, and you parted ways.”

“True enough. Uninteresting, but mostly accurate. Go ahead.”

I nodded. “I take it you’re the one who hired the Blackstone Bandits to keep an eye on me?”

“I wouldn’t quite call it ‘hiring’, but yes, I was the reason they were looking after you for a time.” She smiled. “Let me ask you something that might actually have a useful answer.” Elora smiled. “How much do you know about the man who calls himself Keras Selyrian?”

Carter turned and looked straight at Elora, then to me. She was clearlyinterested.

“A bit. He’s a criminal who you attempted to arrest, working with my mother. He escaped.”

“Intriguing. I believe you know a good deal more than that.”

I slowly moved my head up and down, considering what was safe to say. “He’s a foreigner and an expert combatant. I watched a memory crystal ofyour fight with him. He’s comparable to an Emerald-level attuned, if not stronger.”

“You’re dodging.”

I shrugged. “Maybe you should have been more specific.”

Elora waved a hand, her crystal ring glimmering as the light on it shifted. “Very well, then. Go ahead.”

I glanced to Carter, then back to Elora. “How long have you been working with servants of the Tyrant in Gold?”

Elora frowned. “What?”

The soldiers all tensed, turning toward me.

I may have just made another terrible mistake. But resh it, if she honestly doesn’t know, I’d rather have one potential ally than zero.

“Carter has a magical mark on the back of her right shoulder that—” Eyes turned toward Carter.

Carter took a few steps back and reached into her pouch. Woods tackled her to the ground.

I heard a snap. It wasn’t from the impact, though. Woods pulled Carter’s arms behind her.

“Disarm and search her.” Elora clapped her hands together.

“You who are born of the Serpent,Wrought with scales of adamant and bearing claws of fire, I call upon our pact.

Visage of venom, hear my voice! Wyvern, I summon you!”

A draconic beast appeared in the air above Elora, roaring into the sky. It was considerably larger than the version she’d summoned against Derek and Sera in the survival match.

Either she’d been holding back then, or she’d grown considerably stronger in the last few months.

Possibly both.

Michel moved to help hold Carter’s legs down, while Thomas flipped open Carter’s pouch, pulling her hand out of it and retrieving what she’d grabbed.

A stick, now snapped in two. “What’s this?” Thomas demanded.

Carter chuckled. “A twig, obviously, sir. Never seen one before?”

Oh, no.

I turned to Elora. “That’s a signaling item. We need to leave right now.” Elora turned to look at me, her eyes narrowing. Then, slowly, she nodded.

“Agreed. Finish disarming her, then we’re getting out of here.” “You’re too late.” Carter laughed again. “He’s already here.” There was a blur of movement.

Then Woods fell backward, staring at two arms that were no longer connected to his hands.

Thomas had just enough time to open his mouth before a blur slammed into his throat. His hands reached up toward a growing line of red.

Michel’s aura flared yellow for an instant before something struck her in the jaw, slamming her into the ground hard enough to send her into a tumble across the forest floor.

The attacker was faster than my eyes could perceive.

Then someone was looming above Carter, a look of disdain on his face as he lifted — and then tossed — Woods’ severed hands.

“Attunements.” The figure wiped his own bloodstained hands against his previously pristine white shirt.

“You think so highly of them, and yet, they can’t help you in the slightest if you’re suppressing them.” He shook his head. “Not that little ones like yours would have mattered, anyway.”

The man was tall, slender, with short hair that had been dyed a dark green tone. His garb was entirely white, aside from the bloodstains.

His eyes were bright yellow. Almost gold.

“Now.” He turned down to Carter. “What’s all this nonsense?”

Carter stumbled to her feet. “I’m sorry. I’ve been compromised. We were instructed to suppress our attunements, and I couldn’t hide the mark properly.”

The man raised a blood-stained finger to her lips. “That’s enough, darling.

No need for excuses. We’ll clean things up.” To the side, Elora moved a finger.

The wyvern dove.

The man turned, frowned, and dodged a swipe from a barbed tail. “Elias, Warden of the Adamantine Wall, I summon you!”

A titanic stone figure burst from the ground in front of Elora. I’d seen this before, in my vision of her fight with Keras, but I hadn’t seen it in person.

The man smacked the wyvern’s tail to the side with a palm, looking up at the stone golem. “Hrm. Neat.”

“Elias, bind him with chains of authority!”

Golden chains manifested around the man, pulling him toward the ground. He frowned. Then the wyvern slammed its tail into his chest.

He didn’t move an inch. That kind of mass should have smashed through solid stone, but he didn’t even seem to notice the impact.

The bloodstained man just stared blankly for a moment, then shook his head. “No, I don’t think you’re doing this right.”

He touched a hand to the chains. “You see, this is all magic. The chains...” He closed his eyes, and the chains vanished. “This rather vicious beast.”

The man vanished, then reappeared with his hand grabbing the creature’s tail.

Then the wyvern vanished, too.

The man pointed at the golem. “This one looks sturdier, but in truth, it’s the same.”

He walked casually toward the massive golem as it brought it fists downon top of him. It must have been two stories tall, dozens of tons in weight.

He raised a hand and caught the descending stone fist. For the first time, he seemed to show a hint of effort, just for an instant.

And then the golem collapsed into an inert pile of stone.

“Delicious.” He smiled, turning back toward Carter. “Now, where were we?”

“We were leaving, I believe, m’lord Saffron.”

Saffron. That’s one of those “ess” names Keras warned me about.

The man — Saffron — nodded. “Ah, yes, yes.” He turned toward Elora. “But she was rather rude, wasn’t she?”

He took a step forward, then paused.

Thomas had grabbed his leg. The wound on Thomas’ neck was gone. “Never leave a healer in a condition to heal themselves, monster. Now die.”

A black aura flared from Thomas’ hands, burning through Saffron’s pant leg.

Saffron winced. “Good advice. I’ll offer some in return.” Saffron shook his leg free, then knelt down. He showed no signs of injury. “Don’t talk so much in the middle of a fight. Especially when you’re completely outmatched.

Here, I’ll help.”

There was another blur, then Thomas fell backward, letting out a distorted scream.

All that had happened in a handful of seconds. I wasn’t waiting for anything else. I bolted toward the woods. If anyone was smart and still alive, they’d follow me.

Haste.

I threw as much mana as I could into my legs. I didn’t care about finesse right now.

Saffron appeared right in front of me. I barely stopped myself from running right into him.

“You’re fleeing from me.” He stared at me. “I... I’m not with them,” I managed to stammer.

His eyes narrowed. “No?... Hm, interesting. Sit.” I found myself sitting.

“Good boy. We’ll talk when I’m done.” He vanished again.

My mind was screaming to get up, but my body wouldn’t respond.

This is no time for half-measures.

I reached up and touched my Enchanter attunement, then I flooded it with pure mana from my hand.

More. More!I charged my attunement with mana until my hand burned and trembled with agony.

But I still couldn’t make myself stand.

Shivering, I pushed myself around to look back in the direction I’d come from. The mental command forced me to sit, but it wasn’t restricting me from doing anything else.

The first thing I considered was pulling my own signaling stick out of the Jaden Box, but that wasn’t likely to work. Derek was too far away to get to me quickly, and I didn’t even know if the stick would work at all at this range.

Instead, I pulled the signal monitor off my shield sigil. That would trigger the tracking device to activate.

It was a slim hope that the Soaring Wings would arrive in time to help. In truth, I didn’t know if they could handle a threat like this, anyway. I didn’t even know if Derek could.

But I wasn’t going to let myself die without doing everything I could to try to survive.

Thomas was pawing at his mouth. Trying to heal a missing tongue, perhaps.

Michel was back on her feet, her Citrine aura active. I watched as she focused mana in a fist and threw a punch at Saffron.

Saffron stepped to the side, avoiding the attack as if it had come at him in slow motion. Then Saffron’s hand moved like a blur, and I saw a splatter of crimson across the forest floor.

Michel fell to her knees, clutching at what was left of her throat. She didn’t rise again after that.

I shivered.

I still couldn’t stand. Instead, I turned toward a tree, tilting my feet.

Jump.

It wasn’t much, but I blasted myself a few feet to the side.

Jump.

I pushed myself further, trying to conceal myself from view. I wasn’t going to get very far with just the ring moving me, but maybe Saffron would forget about me if I was lucky.

At the moment, he was walking toward Elora. She hurled blasts of fire and lightning from her hands, but he just walked through them, ignoring the attacks entirely. They vanished when they hit him.

An expression of understanding crossed Elora’s face, and she changed tactics. “Torrent of Stone.” A tornado of dozens of stone spears appeared around her.

“Interesting strategy.” Saffron turned toward her and tilted his head in acknowledgement. “You’ve summoned actual stone. Only the force carrying them is magical.”

The spears flew forward in a swarm, slamming into him. On contact, they shattered into splinters.

“Unfortunately, they’re simply not good enough. I do commend your efforts, though.” He nodded. “Wait a moment. Why do you look so familiar?”

While they were distracted with each other, I reached into my bag.

I needed a way to get myself out of there, and I couldn’t do it while I was forced to remain seated.

“Retrieve: Ring of Derek Controlling.”

The ring that Orden had used to control Derek wasn’t explicitly designed to control him, but I used the name because it was memorable.

An ordinary Enchanter wouldn’t have had much use for the ring, unless they were the one who had made it. It stored a bit of Orden’s mana inside a rune, which made the runes respond to her voice commands.

I understood how it worked because I’d made several of the same type of rune while working on the tiles for Teft’s final exam.

Orden was a wise enough Enchanter to put anti-tampering runes on it to prevent any of the runes from being added or removed.

She did, not, however, account for an Arbiter, who could purify the mana in a rune that already existed.

I touched the rune that contained Orden’s mana and activated my Arbiter attunement. In moments, Orden’s mana signature was gone.

“You will desist at once.” Elora’s voice trembled.

“Will I now?...Oh, no. I know where I know you from.” Saffron broke into a fit of laughter, doubling over. “Oh, how fun! I never thought... No, I can’t.

Ah, this is so unfortunate.”

A spear burst from the ground under him, its crystalline form sparkling like diamond.

It pierced straight through Saffron’s chest. Blood pooled around the wound.

Elora waved a hand. Five more spears shot up from the ground, piercing through his body with similar ease.

“Trash.” Elora coughed. She must have been overusing her lung mana with all those spells. “You’ll pay for—”

Saffron’s hand reached down, snapping the first spear in twain. After that success, I saw a blur of rapid motion as he destroyed the rest.

He tumbled to the ground, then reached backward awkwardly to extract the remains of the spears from his body. “Fascinating.” He coughed, tossing a bit of spear to the ground. “That was unexpected.”

I slipped the ring on my hand.

I wasn’t sure it would work, but I had to try. I whispered to myself, “Stand up.”

The ring activated immediately. I felt perception mana flood into me from the enchantments as the command took effect.

...But I didn’t stand.

Saffron’s spell was stronger than the ring.

I felt my heart pounding in my chest as panic threatened to overwhelm me.

But I had to keep fighting. I wouldn’t let myself stop.

The conflicting commands burned in my mind, and I shivered with effort. “Stand up,” I repeated. The ring activated again.

Saffron cracked his neck, then his body blurred, and the remaining spearshad been tossed to the side.

And as I watched, the gaping wounds on his body began to close. “It’s been quite some time since I’ve found anything that can hurt me.” Saffron bowed toward Elora. “You have truly impressed me.”

“Keep watching.” Elora clapped her hands together.

A dozen more of the diamantine spears burst from the ground. But they didn’t hit anything.

Saffron was next to Elora now. “I’m afraid that won’t work a second time. I was quite distracted at first. But I was complimenting you. You shouldn’t be so rude.”

Elora took a step back. “You’re—”

He raised a bloodstained finger toward her lips. “Ssh.” Elora glared at him.

“Stand up!” I told myself again, still shivering as the conflicting mana worked within my body.

Saffron’s spell snapped.

Slowly, I stood up, just in time to see Carter walking toward me.

Saffron was still staring at Elora. “Now, tell me, where did you get that face?”

Elora glared at him for one more moment, then looked to where the soldiers were lying bleeding on the ground.

“This is a simple question. Where. Did. You. Get. Your. Face.” “My parents, obviously.” Elora took a step back.

Saffron shook his head. “No, no. That’s not what I meant. Think about my question.”

Carter dropped into a fighting stance as she approached, glaring at me. “You’re going to pay for screwing my cover.”

Resh, almost made it.

She’s probably Citrine level or higher, and a leg marked. That means she’s close combat focused. I don’t know if I can handle her.

I reached into my bag again as Carter drew closer. “Retrieve: Signaling Stick.”

Carter paused, staring as I pulled the stick out of the bag.

“Not one step closer.” I waved the stick. “You know what this is.”

Carter continued to approach, but more cautiously. “Might just be a stick you found on the floor.”

Elora was still talking to Saffron, but I couldn’t focus on that while my own life was at risk.

I moved my hands to brace for breaking it. “Think about how I recognized yours immediately, and how I recognized your mark.”

“You’re an Enchanter, you could have—” I decided to gamble.

“I’d advise you to stop walking now. Sterling will be very upset if I call him all the way out here.”

I’d picked a random name, the first one I’d remembered from the “ess” names that Keras had given me.

From the way that Carter paled and took a step back, I took it I’d hit the mark. “Now, now, let’s not be hasty,” she said. “You just hand that over to me and we’ll get this sorted out.”

“Not going to happen. You stand down, and I’ll talk this over with your master directly. Then you can tell him why you were involved with interrupting my mission for this nonsense.”

“I didn’t—”

My gamble was working, but there was a problem.

Saffron seemed to have run out of patience for Elora, and now his hands were wrapped around her neck.

If I let things go, maybe I could have simply talked my way out of the situation. If I’d sold Carter with my lies, maybe Saffron would have listened, too.

But even if I didn’t approve of everything that Elora had done, I couldn’t just watch her die.

Not just out of my general pacifism, in this case.

She was my best lead on information about my brother.

I took a few steps forward, ignoring Carter. She actually stepped away from me as I moved closer to Saffron.

I whispered to myself. “Don’t listen to any of Saffron’s commands.”

The ring activated again. I didn’t know if doing that in advance would be enough to shield me if he commanded me again, but it was better than nothing.

Then I addressed Saffron directly, putting on a veil of false confidence. “Please stop that, Saffron. My master has made something of an investment in that one, and I’ve been asked to ensure she isn’t harmed.” I casually waved the stick in the air, hoping it would get his attention.

He turned his head toward me. “What master are you... Wait, how are you standing?”

I raised my hand and showed him the ring. “A small gift from my master protected me.” I considered my next words closely. “Sterling would not be pleased if I was forced to do the bidding of others.”

“Sterling.” He almost spat the word. “This girl is one of his projects?”

I nodded with the utmost confidence, having zero idea of what I was talking about. “Of course. Can’t you see why?”

He glanced at her, then back to me. “This is a bit perverse, even by his standards.” Saffron grinned. “But I can see the appeal. There is one problem, however.”

“Oh?”

Saffron turned back to Elora. “I’ve always enjoyed breaking my brother’s toys.”

I heard a snap. Elora’s fingers.

And then she vanished.

Saffron’s shoulders sagged. “Really? She can teleport?” He blurred again, appearing at Carter’s side. “Idiot. You didn’t tell me they had a teleporter.”

“Forgive me, Lord Saffron. I assumed you knew.”

“Deflecting blame? You’ll be punished for that later. But for now, I should finish here, hmm?” Saffron turned to me. “Now, tell me your name, rank, and authentication phrase.”

The ring activated, sending me command to obey.

I appear to have made a terrible mistake.

I’d purified the rune that was responsible for filtering when the ring activated.

At the moment, that meant that it would activate if anyone gave me a verbal command. I could fix that eventually, but it would require making permanent modifications to the ring.

My previous command to ignore Saffron was still at work. The end result was that a surge of pain flooded through my body as the commands conflicted. I wasn’t ready for it like I had been when I’d activated the ring in the first place, and I ended up falling backward in surprise.

Saffron stalked forward toward me. “I said now, boy.”

I fought to resist as the compulsion activated again. A few moments later, I would have failed.

Elora Theas appeared next to me and grabbed me by the arm. I didn’t resist in the slightest.

She snapped her fingers, and then we were elsewhere.

***We appeared right outside of Derek’s mansion.

Elora fell forward and vomited noisily. I managed to steady her enough that she didn’t fall into her own mess.

My own head was still swimming, but I was clearly in better shape than she was.

“Door.” Elora managed to say.

I grabbed the handle and pulled the door open.

By the time I turned back to her, Elora had fallen to the ground. Not in her mess, fortunately. But her eyes were closed.

I picked her up and shouted as I walked inside. “Derek! Keras! Help!”

I carried Elora inside, only managing a few steps before Derek came running down the stairs.

He was unarmed.

He looked like he’d just gotten out of bed, wearing nightclothes, a silver bracelet on his right wrist, and a crimson bracelet on the left. He was also wearing a necklace that looked vaguely familiar.

“Corin? What’s...?”

He took a moment to process what he was seeing. “I’ll take her.”

Derek ran over, gingerly slipping his arms under Elora and lifting her. “Close the door and tell me what happened.”

“Get Keras. Now.”

I ran back to the door, lifting the horizontal bar across it. This manor was built like a fortress, and the door was designed accordingly.

“Keras isn’t here right now. Why?” A fist burst through the front door.

“Because there is a slim possibility we may have been followed by a Child of the Tyrant in Gold.”

Derek stared at the door. “Oh. Yeah, that’s bad.” Derek looked from side to side. “Take her somewhere safe.”

Elora groaned in his arms. “...No. Down.”

Derek set Elora down gently on the floor, then put his hand on the crimson bracelet. “Delsys, I summon you.”

A crimson-skinned figure appeared at his side, blazing winds whipping around him. Derek pointed at the back of the room. “Find Keras and bring him back here immediately.

The flame creature nodded, then seemed to condense as it shifted in form to a blazing bird and flew out straight through the rear wall, leaving a bird- shaped hole.

The door flew off its hinges.

Saffron stood in the doorway. “I do not like it when people leave me in the middle of a conversation.”

Derek took a step forward. “Sir, you’ve just broken my front door. I do not appreciate that.”

Saffron turned his gaze toward Derek. “I’m terribly sorry, I mean no offense. I just need to dismember those two a little bit, then I’ll fix your door...” He shook his head. “No, I probably won’t.”

Derek’s aura brightened to Emerald, and he put a hand on the silver bracelet. “Tavare, I sum—”

“Stop, Derek.” Elora grabbed his leg. She was still having trouble standing. “He absorbs magic. It works on summons.”

Absorbs?I’d seen him make those monsters vanish, but I hadn’t understood what was happening.

Derek nodded. “Get yourself and Corin out of here. At least until you recover enough to help.”

Saffron took a step forward. “Those are my prey.” His eyes narrowed. “I did not give them permission to leave.”

Saffron vanished again.

When he reappeared, his fingers were an inch away from punching though the center of Elora’s chest.

Saffron’s expression was perplexed. He struggled to move further. Derek had grabbed him around the wrist. “I think not.”

Then Derek slammed a fist into Saffron’s face.

The Child of the Tyrant fell backward with a bloody lip.

Saffron raised a hand, wiping away the blood with an already-filthy hand. “Now that...is interesting.”

“Derek. Be. Careful.” I managed. Then I ran for the stairs.

From the corner of my eye, I saw a fight that was little more than a blur.

It was immediately evident that I had never seen Derek use a fraction of his true strength.

When Derek flew past me and crashed into the stairwell, it became apparent that even his true strength might not be enough.

Derek was moving again in an instant. And I was running again a moment later.

When I was on the second floor, I paused. What could I even do in a fight like this?The first order of business was pulling off the Ring of Derek Controlling. I dropped it back into my bag, along with the stick. I’d look into modifying the ring later, but for the moment, it was a liability if anyone could command me to do anything.

If I wanted to escape, that seemed fairly simple. I could go to the roof, jump off, and use the ring of jumping to flee to safety.

But would that even work? This thing had followed us all the way here in moments.

It clearly had some kind of tracking and teleportation, not to mention movement that was so fast I couldn’t even perceive it.

How can I fight this thing?I could get Selys-Lyann, but he absorbs magic. Selys-Lyann probably wouldn’t hurt him, if I could even land a hit at all.

Absorbing magic...

I ran toward Sera’s room instead of my own.

I found Ceris, the Song of Harmony, lying next to her bed.

Like deflects like. Will it work?I wasn’t sure, but I had to try.

I grabbed the sword and ran down the stairs.

Derek swung a fist at Saffron, but the Tyrant’s child stepped back and avoided the swing.

Blood was trailing down the right side of Derek’s face. His right eye was closed.

Saffron pointed at Derek. “I tire of this. Sit.” Derek’s necklace flashed with sudden light. “Nah.”

Then Derek stepped in and slammed a fist into Saffron’s gut. Saffron stumbled back, startled. “What? How?”

Derek didn’t slow down to explain, he just launched a hail of punches that sent the Tyrant’s child staggering back.

Meanwhile, I could see Elora on the opposite side of the room. There was a growing aura of mana around her hands, white mixed with crimson.

Saffron swept at Derek’s legs, but Derek hopped over it and kicked Saffron in the chest. The Tyrant’s child stumbled back, snarled, and then caught Derek’s arm on the next swing.

“This has been absolutely delightful. But I’m afraid you’re just not good enough.” Saffron shook his head. “A disappointment, really. I was hoping...”

Derek slammed his other fist into Saffron’s jaw, knocking the Tyrant’schild back a step.

Saffron just shook his head and kept talking. “...For a real challenge today.

Like I used to have, before... Ah, it doesn’t matter.” A blur.

Derek flew backward, slamming into a stone wall.

Elora continued to focus, a swirling nimbus of light around her growing stronger with every moment.

I slowed as I went down the stairs.

Saffron turned his head toward me. “Oh, hello. You’re the one I was meaning to talk to later. But now I’m in a poor mood, so I think I’m just going to go ahead and kill you either way.”

Haste.

I wasn’t anywhere close to fast enough to hit him, even layering as much mana as I could throughout my body.

I didn’t try.

I just threw Ceris toward Derek as quickly as I could.

Saffron blurred and almost casually snatched the sword out of the air. “What’s...? Ah!”

He dropped the sword as his hand began to burn where he touched Ceris’ grip.

Then Derek slammed into his back and pressed him into the wall. “Now, hold still.”

Derek grabbed Saffron’s arms and pinned him against the stone. I rushed for Ceris.

Elora’s hands glowed brighter, almost blinding to look at. I’d never seen that much mana collected into a single spell. Not even close.

“Elora, hit him now!” “You’re in the way, idiot!”

“I know! Hit him through me!” Derek yelled.

Saffron laughed. “Are you joking? There’s no way—”

“You absolute idiot!” Elora pointed her right hand. “Fine! If you want to die here, die!”

Elora began to chant, mana emerging from her mouth.

“Burning bright with starry light, Your strength and mine are one...”

Saffron’s struggles against Derek intensified, but Derek managed to keep him pressed against the wall. For the moment, at least.

“I call upon your divine might,Flames that can burn even the soul of the sun! Rage of the God Phoenix!”

The mana crystal in the ring on Elora’s right hand shattered.

An explosion of white flames enveloped her, rising into the shape of a blazing bird.

Elora, barely visible amongst the flames, pointed her finger. The flames surged forward.

No. I’m not sacrificing Derek for this.

I raised Ceris, the Song of Harmony, and I willed it to work.

The white fire arced, shifting course in mid-air, straight into Ceris’ blade. I didn’t wait an instant. I could see Saffron turning, throwing Derek off.

I lowered my arm to strike.

Haste.

Jump. Jump. Jump.

The force of activating the ring repeatedly threw me forward with a speed I couldn’t possibly control. But I didn’t need to.

I’d already aimed.

I jammed Ceris right through the center of Saffron’s chest.

There was an explosion of incendiary whiteness as the stored spell was released.

And when my vision cleared, a spherical hole larger than a fist was missing from the center of Saffron’s chest.

Saffron stared at me in shock.

I pulled the sword back and swung again, aiming for his neck. He raised an arm and deflected the blow, almost casually.

The sword cut into his flesh, but...

Saffron shook his head, grinning through bloodstained teeth.

Where his hand had been burned by touching the sword, the wound was already gone.

The hole in his chest was beginning to close.

And even the cut I’d just made on his arm was almost closed.

No.

I screamed, swinging the sword again and again. He blocked every strike with his arms.

He was healing faster than I could hurt him. And then, with sudden force, he struck back. I’d never felt my ribs buckle like that before. I fell backward, hit the floor, and rolled.

The sword tumbled from my fingers.

“That,” I heard Saffron say, “Was incredible!” The Tyrant’s child burst into laughter.

My coughing produced blood. That seemed bad.

My silver phoenix sigil was active, already working to try to fix my injuries. But it only had a fraction of the power of the ring of regeneration, and even the ring took time to address broken bones.

I’d left the ring with Sera. In retrospect, that had been a costly mistake. With effort, I managed to push myself over to face upward.

I tried to reach for Ceris.

Derek ducked down and picked it up first. “Not my first choice of a weapon, but it’ll do.” Derek cracked his neck. The left side of his chest was stained with blood now, and I couldn’t tell how much of it was his.

“You already tried that. It didn’t work.” Saffron shook his head. “At least be creative.”

“Creativity has its place, of course. But in the absence of good ideas, I usually find that hitting something hard enough repeatedly will solve the problem.” Derek grinned. “And I’ve noticed something.”

Saffron tilted his head to the side. “Oh?”

“You’re healing slower than you were a few minutes ago.” Derek pointed Ceris at him. “I think you’re running out of mana.”

Saffron growled. “Not possible.”

Derek stepped to the side. Away from me, and probably deliberately. How generous.

“Oh? So you have an infinite supply of mana? I doubt that. We all have our limits.” Derek tilted his head downward. “And I think you’re dangerously close to hitting yours.”

I managed to cast a glance to the other side of the room, toward Elora.

She had collapsed against a wall and fallen to the ground. I wasn’t sure if she was even conscious.

She clearly already had been low on mana before she’d thrown that incredible spell. Whatever she’d cast had taken what she’d had left, and probably more.

I couldn’t move more than a hair. I’d burned nearly all of my mana just trying to get free from Saffron’s compulsion.

It was down to Derek now.

And Derek was, from the looks of it, pretty badly injured himself. Saffron moved.

It was the slightest thing, just a hint of a step forward.

Derek took the bait, swinging at Saffron’s outstretched hand. Saffron side-stepped the blow and caught Ceris’ blade.

Then he slammed a palm into Derek’s jaw, knocking him back. And tearing Ceris free from his grip.

“Tavare,” Derek said, coughing as he stumbled backward.

“Your summoned monsters are useless,” Saffron said as he hurled the sword into a nearby wall. Ceris pierced through the stone, embedded to the hilt.

“I call you.”

A slight variation in phrasing, I realized. No elemental appeared at his side.

Instead, a gleaming sword flew down the stairs and toward Derek’s outstretched hand.

Saffron turned and grabbed for the hilt.

The sword shifted mid-air and moved out of the way. Then Derek was armed.

“Much better.” Derek stepped forward, swinging at a diagonal, and projected a wave of cutting force.

Saffron side-stepped the shockwave, but Derek twitched a hand and the energy followed Saffron’s path.

Saffron raised his hands just in time to block the impact. It left long gouges along his arms.

“Just as I expected. You can’t absorb kinetic energy.” He swung his sword again, horizontally this time. Another shockwave flew out, but this one stretched then split apart, each one flying to hit Saffron from a different angle.

“You have become an irritation.” Saffron pronounced. “I don’t like to do this, but I’m afraid I’m going to have to resort to taking this a fraction more seriously.”

Saffron clapped his hands. “A shame, really. I’d like to—” Derek blurred forward and slashed Saffron across the throat.

Saffron flickered as the sword passed though him, and I realized what that meant at the same moment that Derek must have.

Illusion.

Another Saffron appeared behind Derek a moment later, and then slammed a fist into his back.

Derek stumbled and fell to his knees.

“As I was saying, I try not to use magic actively, because it spoils the thrill of the hunt. But you’re exceptional, for a human. Even if the other humans did wear me down a bit first.”

Derek spun around, bringing the sword upward in a rising slash. Saffron caught the sword between his palms, then shoved backward. Derek stumbled, running into something—A second Saffron, who spun him around and punched him in the face. Derek fell to his knees again, lips bloody.

“Illusions. Simulacra.” Derek spat blood, shaking his head. “Can’t fight me with just one of you?”

Saffron smiled. “I could, of course. But you’re getting special treatment since you’ve done so very well!”

One Saffron threw a punch, which Derek side-stepped and responded to with a series of rapid slashes.

The other Saffron folded his hands together. They began to glow red. My ribs were still burning.

My hand was still barely functional from all the mana I’d used. But I could not just lie here and watch Derek get beaten to death. I couldn’t stand, but resh it, I could crawl.

I slowly began to pull myself across the floor toward the wall where Ceris had impacted. I didn’t think I had any chance of doing much with it, but maybe I could get it back to Derek. He was trained at fighting with two swords.

Another Saffron appeared in front of me. “Where do you think you’re going?”

He reached down and lifted me by the throat. “You managed to do me considerable harm earlier, young man.” Saffron shook his head. “That was uncalled for. I think it’s time I return the favor, hmm?”

For the second time in a day, I charged transference mana into my forehead and slammed it into someone.

It was considerably more effective than I expected.

In fact, it erased a good portion of the false Saffron’s face.

He dropped me, falling back and reaching upward toward the eyes that had just been evaporated.

As tough as the original Saffron was, simulacra were made of mana.

Enhancement mana, or a derivative of it.

And transference mana, my very favorite for attacking, was the exact opposite.

I fell to the floor, rolled to avoid the simulacrum stomping a foot on me, and drew the transference sword straight into a swing.

I cut his legs off at the knees.

The Saffron simulacrum fell to the ground, and I rolled on top of him, jamming the sword into his back.

The simulacrum vanished.

I turned my head back toward the other fight. Derek was falling back, being attacked by three different copies of Saffron striking him from different sides.

I pointed my sword at the nearest Saffron, focused the energy in the tip of my sword, and pushed.

It blasted a hole right through the simulacrum’s back.

Incredulous, it turned toward me. Derek swept his sword through its neck a moment later.

We can do this, I told myself. I just need to—Another Saffron appeared next to me. I slashed at him out of reflex.

He caught the sword in his hand, lifting it. “Interesting.” Then he snapped it in half.

Oh.

Saffron — the actual Saffron — leaned down, with half a broken sword in his hands.

I heard a noise toward the entrance, briefly turning my eyes in that direction.

Saffron placed the sword against the center of my chest. The broken blade’s edge began to glow with white light, brighter and brighter. “I think it’s only fair that I do to you what you did to me. Symmetry is important.” Henodded to himself. “Any last words?”

I managed a slight smile. “Keras Selyrian is right behind you.” Saffron went still, then laughed. “As far as last words go—”

A hand landed on Saffron’s shoulder, then spun him around. “...Oh.”

The punch that followed carried Saffron across the room, into the mansion wall, and then through that same stone wall.

I looked up at Keras, coughed, and then smiled. “Hey.”

Keras reached down and pulled me to my feet, then turned toward where a very-much alive Saffron was walking back through the hole in the wall.

“I’ll take things from here.”

Saffron clapped his hands together. An aura of white flame began to swirl around him.

“What was it again?”

Oh, no.

The flames intensified, swirling around Saffron in a nexus of fire. “Ah, yes.” He pointed his hand at Keras. “Rage of the God Phoenix.”

The aura of flames formed a soaring bird, rushing over Saffron and then following his pointed hand toward us.

Keras stepped in the way. His aura shifted in the same way I’d seen it move a hundred times before, forming a blade of energy around his right hand.

He cut the spell in half.

The remaining streams of white fire flew to either side of him, impacting against the back wall of the house and burning a pair of holes straight through it.

I stared in disbelief.

Keras tilted his head downward. “Saffron.”

“Keras.” Saffron spat a mouthful of blood onto the floor. “This is a surprise.”

The swordsman put a hand on the hilt of his sword. “I’ll give you a fair opportunity to leave.”

Derek swung his sword in an arc, dispatching the last of the simulacra. “Are you kidding? This guy wrecked my house, Keras. Also, less importantly, he may have killed Elora.”

Keras took a step toward Saffron, drawing his sword just an inch out of the scabbard. “Leave.”

Saffron’s eyes scanned across the room. Elora. Derek. Keras. Me. “I’ll remember this. I’ll remember all of you.”

Then he snapped his fingers and vanished.

Derek glanced from side to side. “I seriously think I’m going to need a new house.”

Then he collapsed, senseless, to the mansion floor.

***There’s something absolutely terrifying about not being able to move.

Saffron’s magic had forced me to remain sitting. Now, I had to force myself to lie still. Not as bad, but still far from my favorite activity.

Keras stood up from checking on me. “Good news is that I don’t think any of your ribs punctured a lung. Bad news is that I am not a medical professional.”

I nodded, then coughed. I was lying down on the floor. He’d insisted that I remain still until I got proper treatment. “You going to go get help?”

He shook his head. “Not until someone else gets here to watch over you, or more likely when Derek wakes up. There’s too much of a chance that Saffron will come back.”

I winced. “Could you beat him, if he does?”

Keras shrugged. “Maybe. In the state when he fled, most likely. From what it sounds like, you wore him down pretty badly. I’m proud of you. But if he comes back any time soon, he won’t do it by himself. And two Children of the Tyrant?” He shook his head. “Not good odds. Even for me.”

I didn’t like the sound of that in the slightest. “...Is there anything we can do right now to make sure that if he does come back it’s, you know, less likely to be fatal for us?”

“Don’t think so. As I’m sure you saw, there aren’t a lot of people who can stand up to one of the Tyrant’s children. I don’t know anyone local who can fight as well as Derek. Maybe I could grab his equipment for him? It lookslike he just got out of bed, and he doesn’t have all his Soulblade items on him.” Keras shook his head. “Frankly, he probably did better than I would have without a weapon.”

I nodded at his logic. As a Soulblade, Derek was almost as reliant on his equipment as I was. I didn’t know if he could have beaten Saffron if he had all of his items on him, but it probably would have been a closer match.

I considered telling Keras to go get the items, but I hesitated. I didn’t want to take the chance that Saffron would return in the few minutes Keras left me all alone.

Before I had a chance to reply, a burning figure flew in through the back wall. I reached for my sword on my hip, only to realize that it wasn’t there, and belatedly, that the figure was just Delsys coming back.

Delsys had reverted to his humanoid form — a red-skinned man with blazing wings and a tornado of flame surrounding him. He hovered just a few inches above the floor.

He moved toward Derek’s fallen body, tilting his head down, then turned his head toward Keras. “This is unacceptable.”

“I hear you.” Keras sounded exasperated. “Sorry, I couldn’t get here in time.”

Delsys let out a low growl. “When I find the creature that did this, I will burn it until nothing but ash remains.”

“Delsys,” I managed, before breaking into a coughing fit. The blazing figure turned its head toward me.

“Young Cadence,” he replied.

“Derek and Elora need a healer. Do you know any nearby?” “I am not well-versed in the skills of mortals.”

I pondered that. “Sheridan Theas. Can you find them?”

“I am aware of the home of Sheridan Theas. If they are present, I will retrieve them.” Delsys nodded, then changed into the shape of a blazing bird, and flew back out.

...Leaving another hole in the wall.

“Well, at least now help is probably on the way,” Keras remarked.

I sighed. “...Yeah.” I managed to lift a hand to my forehead, wiping away sweat. “How did you get powerful enough to fight people like that, Keras?It’s...the gap in our strength seems impossible to bridge. As you said, Derek is about as strong as humans get. And even he was at a disadvantage against Saffron.”

“I wouldn’t completely agree with you there. Derek might have been weaker than Saffron, but if he had all his equipment, I think he could have forced Saffron to retreat like I did. Immortal beings like Saffron don’t generally like to risk fighting anyone who stands any chance at causing them lasting harm.”

“Maybe.” I didn’t get the impression Saffron considered any of us a serious threat. “But what if we wanted to win, rather than just force a stalemate? Is it even possible for a human to achieve the power necessary to do that?”

Keras shrugged a shoulder. “I have met a few humans with as much raw power as Saffron...but they’re people who have found ways to extend their life span beyond normal human limits.”

He’s probably talking about people like Wrynn Jaden, I realized.

“So, if I wanted an equivalent amount of magical power to someone like Saffron, I’d need more than a human lifetime to get it?”

“Not necessarily, although that would be the most plausible route. You saw what Saffron could do, yes? The Children of the Tyrant are all like that — they can absorb magic. Not just for a short time, either. They can steal power from items, or from people, in ways that make themselves permanently stronger.”

He shook his head. “Many of them have had hundreds of years of practice doing just that. Imagine not having to train in the slightest, just putting your hand on some hapless victim and taking all their strength.”

“And there’s no downside to that? No limit to the amount they can absorb?”

Keras shook his head. “Not that I’ve seen. They tend to specialize in a few types of magic, so maybe they have difficulty absorbing opposing magic types. It probably causes conflicts in their body if they have too much of two opposing types. But while that is a limit, it’s not one that’s particularly exploitable, when they’re practically invincible and still have several types of magic to work with.”

“How would you beat one, then? You said you thought you might be able to.”

“I have something of an unfair advantage.” He patted the sword on his hip.

“I can hurt them in ways they can’t regenerate from. That doesn’t mean I’d be guaranteed a victory, though. Many of them, especially the stronger ones, would have tactics that would allow them to wear me down without ever getting into my swinging range. Saffron isn’t the most strategic of the bunch, which is why I’d stand a reasonable chance.”

I gestured at the sword on his hip. “Is that the reason you’re so dangerous? I don’t see you draw the sword very often. One of the Six Sacred Swords, I’m guessing?”

“Not quite, but you’re not far off.” He shook his head. “Anyway, the weapon is a part of it, but it’s useless on its own. Hand it to an ordinary swordsman and they’d just kill themselves with it.”

He tapped a hand against his chest. “Much of my strength comes from practicing magic in ways that permanently reinforce my body. It’s a very slow process. I use things like strength and resilience spells until my body acclimates to them and improves.

“You’re already working on that yourself — practicing that Haste spell is going to make you faster and faster, as your body acclimates to it. Another portion is learning techniques that are designed for single combat against opponents that are stronger than I am. We’re training you for that, too.”

“But I’m sure a lot of people train like that.”

“Sure.” Keras nodded. “To some degree, at least. I’m sure you’ve noticed that training your Haste spell is a painful and frustrating process. Many are going to abandon that, unless they have perception spells to make it easier, like you talked about wanting. Sometimes the most frustrating training methods bear the most fruit.”

That made sense. “But that can’t be enough to catch up to someone like Saffron. If what you’re saying is true, he could just drain a single Sunstone’s mana and it’d be more power than I’ve earned in my life.”

“Fortunately, I don’t think their mana absorption is one hundred percent efficient. But your point remains true. There are two other reasons I’m as powerful as I am. One, is that I’m constantly looking for shortcuts to make myself more powerful. Some of them work better than others.

“That flask of magic water you gave Sera? It might have backfired, but that’s the type of idea that I’ve made use of a dozen times. Some of them have taken me out of commission for a while. Others have nearly killed me. But I’ve survived to this point, and I’m stronger for it.”

Keras shook his head. “Don’t take that as encouragement to go that route,though. I have another reason why I’m as strong as I am, and it’s a part of the reason I can afford to experiment.”

“You’re not human,” I guessed. “You’re...what, a God Beast? Or something like it?”

“I suppose that’s not a bad comparison, although I’m not sure I like it.

I’m...well, it’s a bit complicated. Didn’t even find out myself until I was an adult. That made for something of a confusing childhood.”

“I’d imagine.”

“Anyway, I have advantages and disadvantages because of it. In terms of sheer combat ability, it’s mostly advantages. It’s the other parts of life that I have more trouble with.” He gazed away, distant and contemplative.

I let him think for a while. But not too long.

Being incapacitated and in terrible pain was extremely boring. “Your shortcuts. Would any of them work for me?”

“Not sure. Most of the ones I’ve used are directly related to what I am. A human wouldn’t survive them. Maybe one of the crystals at the elemental temples...” He shook his head. “I don’t think you’re ready for that yet.” Keras folded his arms, sitting down next to me. “You might have been on the right track with the mana water.”

I nodded weakly. “I’d been planning to study it further, and similar things like enhancement elixirs. But that still seems so slow.”

I expected him to give me a speech about how slow, incremental growth was the safe way to go. That was, after all, the same kind of lecture I got from everyone else. That I had to pay my dues, train for years, and eventually maybe — just maybe — I’d be good enough.

Or, perhaps he’d give me a lecture about how power wasn’t what was important, and that I needed to grow as a person and learn to be responsible and avoid conflict.

Or maybe he’d tell me that I had a pair of support attunements, and that I should never have been trying to fight someone directly at all. That it was complete folly for an Enchanter to try to be a front-line combatant.

Instead, he said, “Yeah, I wouldn’t have the patience for that approach after a fight with someone like Saffron, either. Okay. Let’s think of something.”

“...Really?”

“Sure. You think I want you to feel helpless? Accept your weakness?That’s no way to live. I might not have an instant solution, but I’ll try to help you figure something out. Don’t get your hopes up about us finding something that’s going to make you as strong as Saffron, of course. But there are ways to win battles without being as strong as your opponent.”

“Of course, but I can’t expect to do that reliably. If Elora hadn’t teleported me out of that area, I’d have been at Saffron’s mercy. And it’s not like that was an isolated incident. I’m routinely running into enemies that are too powerful to fight directly.”

“So...don’t, then.”

I gave him a skeptical look. “What am I supposed to do, tell them to spare me so I can train for a year and give them a better fight later?”

“You’d be surprised at how well that can work, but no, that’s not what I meant.” Keras waved a hand dismissively. “I mean that you seem to be fixating on how to win in a one on one fight without any sort of situational advantages. That isn’t playing to your strengths.”

I tried not to feel offended by that. “Is this where you tell me that I’m an Enchanter, and I should be focused on making items for fighters, not trying to fight?”

“That isn’t what I was suggesting in the slightest.” He raised a hand to adjust his mask. “The strength I’m talking about is your flexibility. You’re extremely creative in how you make use of the items and abilities at your disposal. I’ve been trying to teach you my style of fighting, but I don’t think that’s what suits you. You already have your own.”

“My...own fighting style?”

“Sure. I trained for years to learn conventional fighting styles, just like you have. Sparring with dueling teachers, military training, that sort of thing. I was never a terrible swordsman, but I wasn’t exceptional, either. And being average was never acceptable. To excel, I had to learn to do what other people couldn’t do. And I’ve already seen you doing some of that — I just think you need to embrace it.”

Keras was right.

I’d been trying to copy the general approach to combat from other people my entire life. My father, Tristan, everyone who had ever trained me had ideas on how to approach combat. Many of these came from long years of training and tradition.

But those fighting styles were built for Guardians, or Shapers, or Elementalists. Not for Enchanters or Arbiters.

Even when I was training with Keras himself, I was focused on how I could use my own skills to make approximations of his, rather than developing something that suited me.

“You’re right. I have a combination of attunements that virtually no one else does. I’ve barely bothered to think about how I can do something unique with that.”

Keras grinned. “Now you’re getting it. What can you do that I can’t?”

I tapped my shield sigil. “Make mana threads. I can use them to connect to my sword and manipulate its aura.”

“That’s excellent, but that’s still finding a way to copy one of my techniques. You should still be doing things like that, but I think you can do more than just that. What’s something you can do with that, or otherwise, that I can’t do at all?”

I took a moment to ponder that. “I can attach a thread to my shield sigil so that I can recharge it in the middle of a fight.”

“Good. What else?”

I considered that. “I figured out that I can attach threads to other people’s sigils and recharge them, too.”

“Excellent, that’s much better. What else?”

“...Maybe learn to make solid mana threads, eventually? I can make solid mana crystals, so...”

“That’s an excellent answer. I can see a number of applications for it. What else?”

“Give me a minute to think.”

“Take your time. You’re not going to make a new fighting style overnight.”

***I remembered talking to Keras for a bit, strategizing. Then the pain got worse, and the exhaustion overwhelmed me.

I don’t even remember making my way to my bedroom, but I must have eventually.

When I opened my eyes later, I saw a familiar figure looming over me. Not Keras, this time.

“Morning, darling. You gave me quite the scare.” Sheridan Theas was sitting over me, their hands on my...shirtless...chest.

I took just a moment to panic, trying to sit up.

They put a firm hand on my shoulder and pushed me back down. “Not so suddenly, Corin. I’m still working on you.”

Working?... Oh.

I managed to suppress my panic, settling back down.

I was in an unfamiliar bed, but my pants were on, and I was starting to recall what had just happened. “Right. Working. Injuries. That’s why I’m...”

Sheridan laughed. “What, did you think I was taking advantage? How scandalous. I’d kill me for that, even if Derek or Keras didn’t get to it first. Don’t worry, Corin. You’re safe. I’m just mending your ribs.”

I gave Sheridan a slow nod. “Uh, thanks. I’m sorry, I just...”

Sheridan shook their head. “Don’t worry about it in the slightest. I probably should have given you some warning. I was just trying to hold you down so you didn’t move and make your injuries worse. You were tossing and turning quite a bit in your sleep. Nightmares, I think.”

I gave her an apologetic look. “Sorry. I...get those kind of a lot.”

“Maybe we can find something for that later. In the meantime, though, just try to relax a bit while I finish this up?”

“Thanks...” More of my memory was returning. “Derek? Elora? Are they...?”

“Derek is recovering, but he’ll be in rough shape for a while. I treated him first, though, so he’s stable. My sister, unfortunately, is also alive. That’s one winter wish that I’ll have to work on a little harder.” Sheridan chuckled.

“You hate your sister that much?”

“Oh, no, dear. I love my sister. I just prefer to love her from as far away as possible. And the grave would, of course, be the most distant option.” Sheridan rolled their eyes. “Anyway, don’t pay any mind to my jousting with Elora. It’s a form of affection.”

I nodded. Even that slight movement sent a new surge of pain through my chest.

I could understand what Sheridan meant. Sera and I did quite a bit ofteasing each other, even if it wasn’t quite as extreme as what Sheridan was talking about.

“And Saffron?”

“That monster never came back, but we’ve relocated to my house for the time being. There was too much of a risk that Saffron would send someone to that place, even if he didn’t come himself.”

That made me feel somewhat better, at least. “Is Keras still with us?” “Oh, that one has been watching you like a paternal phoenix, dear. Rightnow, I think he’s pacing outside. I can get him when I’m done with this, if you’d like.”

“Thanks. Has anyone told Sera that I’m safe?”

Sheridan shook their head. “No, but I do know a Wayfarer nearby. We can send a message later. You should stay here for a while, at least for a few days.”

I frowned at that. “I’d like to go check on where Saffron first arrived.

Some of those people he hurt might still be alive.” “Elora’s people? Didn’t they abduct you just a bit?”

“Sure, but that doesn’t mean I want to leave them to die out there. If Saffron went back...”

Sheridan shook their head. “If Saffron went back, there’d be nothing left for us to save. If Saffron didn’t go back to them, though, perhaps some of them may have lived. But it’s been hours at this point, they’d have moved to somewhere else if they were in any condition to do so.”

“I’d still like to make sure they get help, if they’re alive.”

Sheridan shrugged a shoulder. “I’m sure Elora will see to it when she wakes.”

“You don’t seem too concerned.”

Sheridan laughed. “Concerned? About a bunch of people who grabbed a teenager in the middle of an exam to use him for a convoluted scheme? No, Corin, I’m not concerned about the fate of that sort of person. I think it’s sweet that you’re kind enough to care, but if you think any one of those people would have given you the same kind of thought, you’re sorely mistaken.”

“Doesn’t matter. I’m not them. Will you look into it for me?”

Sheridan sighed. “Fine. I’ll look into survivors. But only because you’re such a darling. Now, will you do me the kindness of shutting up for a few minutes so I can work?”

“Yes, right. Of course.”

Shutting up was harder than I expected. This was not due to boredom.

It was because knitting my ribs back together with magic was considerablymore painful than I expected.

I considered asking Sheridan to stop, and just relying on the silver phoenix sigil or getting the ring of regeneration back to fix the injuries, but fixing bone damage with regeneration could have taken weeks.

I didn’t have that kind of time.

So, I gritted my teeth through the pain of bones and cartilage knitting in my chest, all the while thinking about a single idea.

I needed to be stronger.

I couldn’t promise myself I’d never lose a fight again. That was absurd, unrealistic in a world with monsters as strong as Saffron.

But I could dedicate myself to making strategies for next time. Maybe then, I wouldn’t feel so reshing useless.

