CHAPTER XIII – THIRD TIME IS THE CHARM



Four of us waited outside the testing facility for our next exam — our third and final chance at the simulated spire.

Jin was the last to arrive. He walked over without any sign of injuries, wearing his characteristic coat over an otherwise ordinary school uniform.

I was still nervous about allowing him to work with us, even after the conversations we’d had.

Is he going to try to use the test for a chance to kill us? Could he make it look like an accident?I sincerely doubted both, which was the only reason I’d agreed to let him stay on the team. We were being closely monitored, and Jin had made it clear he didn’t hold a grudge.

But that was the thing about irrational fears — you couldn’t just tell them to go away and expect it to work. Trying to actively dispel my fears just expanded them, until I was picturing dozens of possible scenarios for Jin’s betrayal.

The rest of the group looked tense, too...except for Patrick. He just walked over and grabbed Jin in a hug. “Glad to see you’re out of the hospital! C’mon, we were just talking about our strategy.”

We weren’t.

We’d planned the general strategy weeks ago, and confirmed it days before.

But that little lie was enough to get everyone focused on the subject athand. We’d need to fill Jin in, and accommodate him now that we were sure he’d be joining us. He’d asked to, of course, but we hadn’t wanted to count on it until we actually saw him. I couldn’t trust anything he said at this point.

“Corin,” Patrick gestured to me. “Want to catch Jin up?”

With Sera still having difficulty talking, it had fallen to me to serve as the de-facto leader of our group. I wasn’t entirely comfortable with it, but as long as it was a temporary measure, I could deal with it.

I nodded to Patrick, then turned to Jin. “All right, here’s the plan...”

***We began the test.

The room I was teleported into was pitch black. I activated my attunement.

At Carnelian level, I had a clearer sense of everything around me, even in the dark. I still couldn’t see clearly — it didn’t give me night vision — but the colors of the images around me were crisper and easier to discern.

We were in the same room I’d started in the very first time.

I’d assumed that was probably the case from the darkness, but I also known that the test could have been changed for our third attempt. We could have ended up with a different challenge entirely.

It was fortunate I’d ended up here, rather than in the other room or a completely new one. That meant less logistical awkwardness and time wasted on switching groups using the return bells.

I wasn’t going to assume everything was unchanged just from one initial indication, but I figured my next action was probably safe.

I sent a spark of mana into the first of three magical items I’d prepared specifically for this exam — a lantern.

The lantern flickered to life, an orb of flame appearing within and casting a glow across the room.

I nodded to Jin, who was at my right side.

He raised his monocle over an eye and scanned the room. I’d made him the item earlier in the year, but I hadn’t actually seen him use it here — he’d been paired with someone else last time.

“There.” He pointed.

I drew the sword on my hip and slashed in the direction he’d pointed. With a hint of mana applied to the transference aura around the blade, I sent a shockwave of force across the room, toward a seemingly empty spot in the back corner.

The furious howl that came in response confirmed Jin’s words.

The creature appeared as it charged into the light, a wolf-like beast with vicious spiked tendrils protruding from its back.

Months ago, the sight of this thing had been terrifying. By now? It was merely routine.

I side-stepped a spiked tendril and slashed it apart, then stepped in with a jab. The creature reacted quickly, hopping out of my attack range, only to take a bullet to the side from one of Jin’s revolvers.

The noise of the gunshot startled me in spite of expecting it — even with the runes I’d etched into the guns, they were still pretty loud.

Fortunately, the creature failed to take advantage of the opening, opting to turn to run instead. I swiped at the air again, and a shockwave slammed into the creature’s back, leaving a wide cut. Jin fired two more shots, hitting once, before it dematerialized and fled into the wall.

“Resh. Wish we’d killed it outright.” I glanced at the walks cautiously, knowing it could emerge from anywhere now that it was in an incorporeal state.

Jin holstered his pistol. “It’s not a major threat. Stick with the plan. I will watch for it while I work.”

I nodded, walking over to a wall and lighting one of the torches with a burst of mental mana. That extra light would help keep the beast at bay, and it was the first part of completing the room’s central puzzle — unlocking a cage that contained a fountain near the center.

In the fountain was a key, which could be used to unlock the next room.

Thus far, nothing appeared to have changed, and thus, I suspected the solution to the puzzle remained — there were six torches, each with a rune etched beneath them. The runes came in three sets. The solution was to use three different types of mana to light the torches; a different type for each rune set.

Mental mana couldn’t actually ignite anything, of course — we’d figured out that all we had to do was channel a little bit of mana of any type other than gray into the torch and it would light itself.

I lit the matching torch just before the beast lunged at Jin from behind. “Look—”

Jin kicked backward, catching the beast in the face. Then he spun, ducked, and grabbed it by the neck.

The beast thrashed, spines flying toward his face, but Jin picked it up and slammed it against the ground, then laid his knee across its neck. While I closed with sword in hand, Jin drew a knife and jammed it into the creature’s chest, dragging it downward.

The monster stilled.

“That was...quick.” I blinked at him.

“Been practicing.” Jin gave me a sly grin, then flipped his knife back into a concealed sheath inside his coat. “And I don’t have to hide my strength from you anymore.”

That was true. I hadn’t been paying much attention, but he was burning with his full Sunstone aura. He’d always suppressed his true strength before our fight, but presumably the academy staff already knew about it, and...well, I obviously knew now, too.

I wish I’d learned under better circumstances.

“C’mon. Hard part is over. Let’s get the rest.” He pointed at the torches.

We each picked another one of the remaining pairs and lit them. I used transference mana. I wasn’t sure what type he was using...probably perception?Either way, we got all the torches lit. The iron cage lifted away, and the fountain in the center was revealed, allowing us to approach and access the key in the water.

The “water” was acid, of course. I hadn’t forgotten that.

Previously, we’d frozen the water, either with Selys-Lyann or Sera’s skills.

I was banned from using Selys-Lyann after nearly killing myself with it, so that was out. Sera probably could have frozen it, but we’d decided conserving her mana was a priority.

I had a much simpler solution. I handed Jin the torch, and brought out a small rod, similar to a dueling cane.

I pressed the rune on the cane. The key shook, then flew toward the end of the rod.

Magnetism was a form of metal magic, usually restricted to people with the Forgemaster attunement in Caelford.

There were, however, a few others who could use it.

Keras was one of them, but he couldn’t help me enchant items without risking breaking them.

Fortunately, I had found another option — Tavare, one of Derek’s summoned monsters. It took some convincing to get Derek to summon them to help me with an enchantment, but it was very worth it.

With the key stuck to the end of the rod, I stepped back, avoiding the cage as it fell back to the ground.

“Easy.” I remarked. “Indeed.” Jin agreed.

The tip of the rod was sizzling. “Oh, ack. Acid on the key.”

I deactivated the magnet function, letting the key drop to the floor.

Fortunately, the rod didn’t seem badly damaged.

“Okay, we’ll need to move the key without touching it.” I knelt down next to it.

“Should have kept your gauntlet for that.”

I shook my head. “Don’t need it. I’ve picked up a few new tricks.”

I pulled just a bit of transference mana into my hand, then released it, blasting the key forward.

“Hmpf. Not bad. Can you get it into the keyhole that way?”

I shook my head. “No, but I can get it close enough and pick it back up with the rod for just a second.”

The rod’s tip was burned, but not badly enough that I was overly concerned. We were probably dispersing any remaining acid on the key just by moving it around, too.

I pushed the key over to the door to what I was affectionately calling the “Tyrant Room”. I knew from past experience that it contained a long hall lined by magical vines, and a majestic carpeted floor leading down the center toward a throne.

On the throne was a crown.

Picking up that crown would summon an illusion of the Tyrant in Gold.

I rubbed my face, remembering where he’d punched me in the face. Thanks, Professor Orden. Your teaching methods are second to none.

I shook my head, raising the key to the door using the rod, and opened it. We’d planned for this, too.

The door opened, revealing exactly the room we’d expected. There was one problem —The Tyrant was already there.

Nine feet tall and armored in golden mail, he carried a gilded two-handed sword, which had been lying hidden in the vines last time we’d visited the room.

I’d seen something else shimmering in the vines, too, which I’d presumed to be a hidden key. The plan had been to use the magnetic rod to pull the key out of the room and avoid the crown entirely.

This was, of course, no longer possible. I backed away immediately.

“Ah, the young swordsman has returned. Do you intend to fight me without the benefit of your winged friend this time?”

I frowned. Professor Orden had been the one running the test last time, hadn’t she?Who else knew about what I’d done last time?...Was the Tyrant here a summoned monster, rather than an illusion? If that was the case, perhaps his knowledge would have persisted...

But it was more likely there was just more than one teacher observing and running each test. This was probably an illusion, just like the others.

I couldn’t let his taunts intimidate me.

“I’m afraid I won’t be challenging you today. Just here for the key, no need to scuff your armor.” I glanced around the room while I talked, hoping a bit of chatter would buy me time.

That glimmer I’d seen in the vines was gone.

I saw why a moment later, when the Tyrant raised his left hand. “Regrettably, the key is already in my possession.”

“Is it?” I pointed the magnetic rod at the key and turned it on.

The key flew out of his hand.

The Tyrant stared blankly at us for a moment. “That was rude.”

I nodded. “Yeah, we’re like that.” I tossed the rod, key and all, to Jin. “Try that on the box.”

He caught the rod and headed toward the back of the room, where we’d found a container we’d never been able to open.

The Tyrant took his sword in both hands and stepped forward. “That belonged to me.”

I drew my sword again, taking a traditional fencing stance. “You seem to think a lot of things belong to you.” I gestured with my sword at the crown he was now wearing above his mask. “At least you’ve got the crown. Isn’t that good enough?”

The Tyrant shook his head. “Of course not. Everything belongs to me. I’ll show you why.”

The Tyrant charged.

I slashed the air, sending a shockwave in his direction, but he cut the shockwave in half with a swing of his own. Then he was in swinging range, taking a huge sweep at my midsection.

I backed off.

Jin calmly said, “It doesn’t fit,” as if I wasn’t currently in the middle of battling against a seven-foot tall illusory deity.

“Okay, little help, then?” The Tyrant’s next swing connected with my blade, battering it to the side with incredible force. Then he released one hand to throw a punch at my face.

Not again.

I ducked, lashing out with a punch of my own, charged with transference mana. It only blasted him back a few inches, but that was just enough to make his next swing miss.

I took advantage of that, swiping my blade upward and connecting with his chin.

The blade deflected harmlessly off his steel mask, just as I’d feared. Then he was swinging again, with enough force to cut me in half.

Move.

I activated the ring of jumping, blasting myself out of the way. The Tyrant’s blade hit the stone where I’d just been standing, and I hit him with a shockwave of force from the side.

He barely even seemed to notice it. His armor was unmarked. Then Jin shot him in the back of the head.

I heard the ring of metal as I suddenly remembered that Jin was there, and the Tyrant fell forward a step.

Jin’s attunement was preventing both the Tyrant and me from noticing him sneaking up, I realized. Nice.

I couldn’t be too congratulatory, though, because the Tyrant backhanded Jin a moment later.

The Tyrant was still moving, and from what I could see when he spun around to swing his sword at Jin, he was probably unhurt.

This is ridiculous. We can’t beat him in a straight fight.

“Keep him busy!” I shouted.

I heard the sounds of gunfire pinging against metal in response. I rushed for where Jin had dropped the key next to the box.

Should I keep trying to open the box and hope there’s something useful inside?No, that could take ages for something that may be unrelated.

I picked up the key and rushed to the other door: the one leading to the fire statues.

I set the key in the lock. It fit. I didn’t turn it.

“Hey! Over here!” I blasted the Tyrant from behind.

“You fight without honor. I am quite disappointed.” He turned, ignoring Jin for the moment, to walk in my direction.

“You know, my father says the same thing all the time.” I waited for the Tyrant to get right in front of me — and thus, in front of the door. “So this is going to be cathartic.”

I turned the key, then immediately activated the ring of jumping to push myself out of the way.

The door opened.

The fire statues inside fired out a blast of incinerating flame, enveloping the Tyrant completely.

It was the same way Jin had been annihilated in the first test. Those flames were a powerful trap.

When the flames subsided, however, the Tyrant still stood. “You are a fool if you think that—”

Jin hurled a knife.

It pieced the Tyrant right in the center of the chest, through his armor. The Tyrant lifted a hand to the knife, mumbling in disbelief. “How...?” “I’ve picked up a few new tricks, too.”

Jin’s second knife lodged in the Tyrant’s skull, just below the crown. The Tyrant fell to a knee, his greatsword slipping from his fingers. “Finish it, then.”

I raised a hand for Jin to wait, then walked closer to our injured enemy. “One thing first.”

The Tyrant turned his masked face toward me, but remained silent.

“This is for breaking my favorite nose.” I grabbed the crown off his head, then slammed the pommel of my sword into the knife that was already embedded in his forehead.

His head snapped back and he crumpled to the ground.

I kicked him one more time for good measure, then sheathed my sword.

I sat the crown on my head, then turned to Jin. “So, you want the greatsword?”

“A little gaudy for my tastes, but it might be useful.” He stepped over and picked up the huge weapon. “Surprisingly light. Shall I try it on the box, Sire?”

I shook my now magnificently adorned head. “Nay, good Sir Jin. Perhaps I should take a look at the runes, now that I’m a bit better versed with them.”

I inspected the box. After deciphering the runes, I came to a sad conclusion.

“It would appear that my time as a monarch has come to a swift end.” I took off the crown, rotated it, and found a rune on the back.

I pressed the rune to a matching one on the box. The crown vanished, and the box clicked open. “Tragic,” Jin muttered, completely deadpan.

Inside the box, I found another key — this one colored red. “This is probably for the flame room.”

Jin retrieved his knives from the Tyrant’s corpse. “Shall I fetch Sera, then?”

I nodded.

Jin rang the return bell and vanished.

Before Sera appeared, I heard a crashing noise coming from the direction of the Tyrant’s room...followed by a roar loud enough that it caused me to tremble.

I took a defensive stance, looking in that room’s direction, but there was no monster in evidence.

Just the room — and one wall in the back that was glowing under my attuned sight.

The false wall.

I’d remembered that it existed, but I hadn’t planned to make it a priority to investigate unless we couldn’t find the solutions within the Tyrant’s room.

With the Tyrant beaten, it had seemed irrelevant, except...

When Sera appeared, I turned to her immediately. “Exactly how tough was that dragon?”

“Why?” She glanced around. “And is that a dead Tyrant? I thought youweren’t going to fight him?” “I liked his hat.”

“Corin.” Sera folded her arms.

I chuckled. “He was already in the room as soon as we opened it this time.

And, from that and some other clues...”

The sound of a roar interrupted me, almost as if on cue. I continued, “I think the dragon is awake.”

Sera clenched her hands into fists. “Too tough to beat outright, I think.

Marissa and Patrick are stronger now, but...”

That was all I needed to hear. “Then let’s go help them.”

She picked up the return bell from the floor, but I shook my head. “Not like that. Got enough mana to make us levitate?”

Sera nodded, then pointed at our feet. “Float.”

I felt a slight pressure beneath my feet, but that was it. When I glanced down, though, sure enough I was no longer touching the floor. “Huh. Okay, let’s hurry.’“Where?”

I tucked the red key away in my pouch. “There.” I pointed at the Tyrant’s room. “Follow me.”

I ran. Sera followed.

Just as we expected, the vines didn’t respond when we entered the room.

They weren’t activated if we never touched the floor. “Oh, the false wall, you think it leads—”

I nodded. “Ready?” “Go.”

I tapped the glowing wall with my sword. It vanished.

In front of us was a tremendous chamber, probably a hundred feet wide and long, and at least thirty feet tall.

In the center, atop a pile of treasure, was a dragon.

It was the first dragon I had ever seen. Dragons were broadly believed to be mythical offshoots of more conventional serpents like Seiryu and Mizuchi. Rather than having snake-like bodies, dragons were built more like gigantic lions with scales instead of fur.

Both dragons and serpents were usually winged, although some serpents were wingless and capable of flight through other means.

This dragon had bright red scales, indicating a strong association with fire. More importantly, it was awake, aware, and angry.

As I watched, it took a breath, and exhaled a wave of flame that enveloped nearly a quarter of the room.

The next thing I saw was Marissa, flying upward above the fire, thensoaring downward with a gleaming fist. “Star descends from sky!”

Then she punched the dragon in the face.

The dragon staggered back at the impact of her fist. That was an image I would not soon forget.

Marissa landed, launching a series of punches and kicks against the creature’s neck without pause. Then she jumped aside to avoid a swipe from one of the dragon’s claws.

A blast of lightning struck the dragon on its side, and it hissed and turned its head toward a new target — Patrick.

At that point, I was done waiting. “Sera?” I turned my head to her.

She was already forming a globe of ice in her hands. She replied in a still- scratchy voice, “Let’s give it a try.”

We had hoped to avoid fighting the dragon, but we’d always known it was a possibility.

Hitting it with small attacks was never going to work, especially since we were short on attacks with its weakness — ice.

So, we’d formulated a way of hurting it a little more reliably. I drew my sword and presented the blade to her.

Sera whispered as she moved her hands closer to the sword. “Child of the goddess,I call upon your aid, Summon all your power,And breathe ice upon his blade.”

She plunged the globe of ice forward and it spread, enveloping the blade.

I nodded in thanks as Sera slumped, holding her throat. That had taken a lot out of her.

As I turned back to the dragon, it was breathing fire again. Patrick was, impossibly enough, deflecting it with fire of his own. Like deflects like, Teft’s words echoed in my mind.

But Patrick was falling back, and he was clearly struggling. He couldn’t defend himself for much longer.

Marissa landed on the creature’s back and slammed her fist into it again, but it just shook her off.

I activated the ring of jumping and blasted myself forward, landing in a pile of gold.

Marissa, struggling to stand, caught sight of me. “Corin?” I nodded to her. “Secret door. Help me flank this thing.” “Got it,” she replied in a determined tone.

We rushed the dragon from opposite sides.

The dragon ceased breathing fire for a moment, turning toward Marissa. I stabbed it with my frost-covered sword. The blade sunk in to the hilt. The dragon howled, whipping its tail toward me with surprising speed.

Instinctively, I activated the ring of jumping, taking me over the tail and safely out of the way.

Unfortunately, I’d left the sword embedded in its side.

The dragon turned and swiped at me with a claw before I even had a chance to land, but a blast of lightning hit it in the eye. The claw still connected, but it was a glancing blow.

Even then, it was enough to knock me out of the sky.

Fortunately, between the levitation spell and the ring’s own effect, I just bounced harmlessly in the air before I slammed into the ground.

I could see cracks in my first barrier from the dragon’s claw impacting against it, but that was nothing to worry about.

The dragon turning toward me and opening its mouth was a far bigger concern. I could see a sphere of flame forming between its open jaws.

Then Marissa was in front of me, waving her hands in a circular motion. The flames blasted over us, but a circular barrier appeared in front ofMarissa, blocking the flames. It cracked more and more with every passing moment, but each second, Patrick was blasting the dragon from the side with more lightning.

It eventually turned its gaze away, and Marissa slumped to the ground, shuddering from the effort.

“Th-thanks...” I managed to mumble, pushing myself to my feet. “Up to you for a bit.” She stumbled backward, and I caught her. “Got it. You rest.”

Marissa nodded and steadied herself as I rushed forward.

The dragon was turning toward Patrick again, but that didn’t mean it was safe to approach. It was thrashing wildly now, its tail threatening to crush me as I ducked under it and avoided a rear claw.

I tried to grab for the sword embedded in its side, but it just smacked me aside with a claw, moving too fast for me to avoid. I tumbled down the gold pile, my shield cracking further.

The dragon breathed again, in Patrick’s direction. I doubted he could deflect much more — he’d already looked exhausted.

Without the sword, I didn’t have a good weapon to fight with. But I did have tools.

I grabbed the magnetic cane from my bag, angled it carefully, and then activated a different rune from last time.

Hundreds of pounds of coins, weapons, and other bits of metal were propelled forward, slamming into the dragon’s side.

The dragon teetered, its head turning upward, the flames harmlessly enveloping the ceiling.

Then it was looking at me again. I turned off the rod and ran.

The smashing sounds behind me were a good indication that I was being followed.

I heard a whir. On instinct, I activated the ring of jumping just in time to blast myself out of the path of a swipe from the creature’s tail.

Unfortunately, I aimed it poorly, and I ended up falling forward. I hit the ground hard this time, indicating that Sera’s levitation spell had finally expired.

When I managed to flip myself over, I found my cane was missing, having slipped out of my grasp.

The dragon loomed over me, fangs bared to strike. Marissa ripped the frozen sword out of its side.

The dragon howled straight into the air, swinging its head and slamming it straight into Marissa. She flew backward, bouncing as she landed. Her phoenix sigil’s barrier cracked, then shattered entirely.

She still has one more barrier, I assured myself. But it won’t last long. And if we keep fighting this thing, neither will we.

Apparently, I wasn’t the only one with that impression. “Run!” Patrick shouted.

That was not a very helpful suggestion, given our precarious position, but he did add a bit right after. “Sera found the key!”

That was good news, at least.

The dragon was moving toward Marissa, and she was still on the ground. Unmoving, as far as I could tell.

No sword. No magnetic cane.

I glanced from side to side, but I couldn’t see it. There was just too much junk in the pile.

No choice, then. One.

I picked myself up, beginning to charge transference mana in my right hand.

That was when Patrick jumped on the dragon’s back, his entire body shrouded with lightning. “Go!” He shouted.

The dragon writhed in agony, trying to shake Patrick free. In a moment, I understood why — he was inside the dragon’s shroud. His lightning attacks hadn’t been able to hurt it much from a distance, but up close...

I ran toward the dragon at first, still charging my fist.

Two.

Then I saw Marissa, still down for the count. And I prioritized.

I let the mana leave my hand, turned, and rushed to Marissa’s side.

She was moving, but only barely. A trail of blood was running down her forehead — she must have impacted the ground even harder than I realized.

Without hesitating, I ducked down and scooped her up from the ground.

“We’re leaving.”

She was just aware enough to wrap her arms around me, making her easier to lift. She’d dropped my sword, but at the moment, that wasn’t a priority.

I blasted us forward three times in rapid succession. Given that she probably had a head injury, that might not have been good for her, but I judged that it was better than being splattered by a dragon.

We landed not far from the entrance to the Tyrant’s room. Sera was already running across that room, apparently having levitated herself again.

I spared one last look back at Patrick, then blasted Marissa and myself half way into the Tyrant’s room.

The plants on the side of the room twitched. I tried to activate the ring of jumping again...

...And nothing happened.

Apparently it does have a limited amount of mana. Oops.

The plants rushed inward. I ran.

A vine was just about to grab me when Sera cut it in half with a blade of ice, then helped pull us through the doorway into the room where I’d started.

The dragon roared in the distance, but what I heard after was something far more surprising — the gentle sound of a ringing bell.

A few moments later, I realized what had happened as I set Marissa down on the floor.

We took a few deep breaths, then Patrick appeared in the room next to us. “That was fun! Anyone need a break?”

Marissa raised a hand. “I...think I hurt something.”

Sera passed her the return bell that Jin had used. “Go take a rest, Mara.

We’ll take care of things from here.”

“Mm. Kay.” Marissa grabbed the bell and rang it, vanishing immediately.

Marissa sounded like she was pretty badly shaken. I hoped that whoever was monitoring the exam would take a look at her head wound now that she was out of the testing area for a while.

We had a more urgent problem to deal with, though.

The dragon had lost its target, and now I could hear its footfalls heading our way.

I picked up the fallen bell, just in case we’d need it later.

“Uh, can we close this door?” Patrick pointed to the entrance of the Tyrant’s room.

“Not sure how to force it shut.” I looked at the opposite side of the Tyrant’s room, where the false wall had been dispelled. “I don’t think it can fit through there, though. We should be—”

A claw smashed away a huge chunk of the wall, making the gap wider. “—moving as quickly as possible.”

I pointed at the flame statue room.

“On it.” Sera headed toward the room, inspecting it from an angle. “I don’t know if I have enough mana to block all of those.”

“Get what you can.”

She nodded. “Wall. Wall. Wall.”

She pointed, and ice walls appeared, blocking jets of flame.

Jin appeared in the room a moment later, glancing around. “Hm. You have acquired a Patrick.”

“Hey Jin!” Patrick waved enthusiastically.

Jin just gave him a curt nod. “And there’s...that’s a dragon, isn’t it?” “Yeah, we’re leaving now.” I pointed at the flame statue room. “Want tolead the way?” “If I must.”

We headed into the chamber.

Sera had managed to block almost all of the statues.

Unfortunately, her ice walls were melting pretty fast, and I doubted she had enough mana to renew them.

I pulled the red key out of my bag. “Remember, the statues can turn. Be careful.”

The two remaining statues were breathing flames across the room in a predictable sequence...at least, predictable until they deliberately changed it when we tried to cross.

Fortunately, we were ready for that. Patrick waved his right hand and deflected the jets of flame out of the way, then stumbled. Jin caught him and dragged him forward.

“Thanks!” “Keep moving.”

In spite of Patrick’s perpetual cheer, I could tell he didn’t have a lot of mana left himself. Blocking fire from both the dragon and the statues had taxed him close to his limit.

We reached the other side of the room. I turned the red key in the door.

Nothing happened.

“You have to be kidding me.”

Jin pointed. “There’s a key over there, behind one of the statues.”

I shook my head. “I got the key from this room before and tried it. It didn’t work.”

“I will retrieve it while you try other options.” Jin moved forward, dancing between blasts of flame to head toward the key. I winced, remembering the first time he’d been blasted with the flames, but he was lighter on his feet this time.

And he had his full Sunstone shroud to protect him if he did get hit.

I withdrew the red key from the door. Before I had a moment to consider other options, Sera had slipped by me and she was turning another key in the lock. One with a dragon’s head.

The door clicked open. “Ooh, nice.”

Ahead of us was a room with a familiar sight — a single central fountain, filled with shimmering blue liquid.

Those of us in the doorway slipped inside, and Jin followed us a moment later with the key from the previous chamber. He’d managed to retrieve it without a scratch.

I scanned the room carefully with my attunement active, but I saw no signs of magic in the room aside from the fountain and a single door on the other side.

“I don’t see any traps. It’s probably safe in here.”

We approached the fountain, but I waved a hand to halt. “That looks like a mana fountain, but let’s be careful here.”

I grabbed a coin out of my bag and flipped it into the water. It didn’t sizzle on contact. So, probably not acid, at least. “Jin, can you...?”

He walked over to the water and knelt down, then tentatively reached a hand over to touch it. “It’s mana water.”

We all breathed a sigh of relief.

I also briefly wondered how the examiners had access to a fountain just like the ones in the spire, and if I could figure out a way to make one of my own. Mana water wasn’t nearly as potent as a mana restoration potion, but it was still incredibly useful.

Everyone took a minute just to rest and drink from the pool. “Should we go back and fight the dragon?” Patrick asked.

I shook my head. “Don’t think we can beat it.” “Agreed.” Sera added.

“Never fight dragons.” Jin said, without any further explanation.

I agreed, of course, but he sounded almost like he had experience at it. One more mystery.

“Okay. That,” I pointed at the door, “Is almost certainly going to be a floor guardian room.”

“Oh, right! They’re usually next to mana fountains like this, right?” Patrick sounded excited, and I couldn’t blame him. He hadn’t actually gone on the spire expedition with the rest of us.

He hadn’t nearly been impaled by the limbs of a giant spider, while running from an Emerald-level Soulblade.

Sera, Jin, and I all looked a little more...cautious. “Plan?” Jin asked.

We had discussed all the rooms we’d already seen, as well as made some other more general plans, but we hadn’t discussed a scenario quite like this. “I think we should run for the stairway if there is one. Even with the manawater, we’re in bad shape.”

I took another drink, considering. “Let me recharge everyone’s phoenix sigils before we go.”

The sound of a gong echoed in the distance.

“...Or maybe not, because I think that means we’re running out of time.

How bad of shape are you in?”

“I am intact,” Jin offered helpfully.

“I’m unhurt. You all took the dragon’s attention,” Sera added.

“Uh, not great, honestly,” Patrick admitted. “Phoenix sigil is out, other sigil is bad.”

“I’ll recharge it for just a second, then.” I walked over and grabbed onto Patrick’s sigil, flooding mana into it. It would take minutes to recharge completely, but I could recharge it a little bit in just a few moments. It would be better than nothing.

“We need a plan for if there is no stairway, or if it is inaccessible,” Jin pointed out.

Sera pulled her dueling cane off her belt and handed it to me. “We hit whatever is in there with everything we’ve got. It can’t be worse than a dragon.”

I accepted the cane and nodded to Sera in thanks. “True. Okay, we ready?”

Everyone acknowledged their readiness. Jin looked a little more skeptical, and I understood why. “Let’s go open the door first. Maybe we can take a look before the fight actually starts and formulate a strategy from there.”

Jin looked noticeably better after I said that. “Agreed.” We walked over to the door.

There were three keyholes.

As far as I knew, we only had two keys left — the red one from the box, and the one Jin had just retrieved.

Fortunately, Sera pulled out a third. I raised an eyebrow. “Where’d you get that?”

“That series of pillars that led to nowhere above the water in the room I started in? Turns out you were right. There was an invisible platform overthere with an invisible key on it.” “Nice.”

We inserted the three keys. The door slid open.

Inside was a plain, circular room, almost like what I’d expect from a fighting arena.

There was no visible stairway within.

Instead, on the opposite side, was Professor Meltlake.

Patrick said what we were all probably thinking. “Uh, guys?... That might be worse than the dragon.”

“Hello, students.”

A blazing aura enveloped the professor’s body. “Welcome to your final exam.”

