SIX SACRED SWORDS PREVIEW CHAPTER – LEGENDS

LOST



I’ve always had a complicated relationship with magic swords.

There’s a magic sword at the very start of my personal story, but I’m not going to start right there. You wanted to know about how I’d encountered Dawnbringer, one of your six weapons of legend.

That’s a much better story.

Let me tell you about when I first came to your lovely continent of Kaldwyn.

***I woke in the Whispering Woods. I didn’t know the name at the time, of course, but I trust that you’ve probably heard of them.

Most of it looked pretty standard as far as forests go, at least at first. Tall trees, occasional patches of high grass, a few mysterious blue flowers growing to the side of where I woke.

Mist. Lots of mist. I could see a good twenty feet, though, so it didn’t add any particular sense of danger. The forest that I grew up in got misty at times, too.

I pushed myself off the ground and wondered how in the name of the gods I’d gotten there.

My head swam as I rose, teetering on my feet. My stomach grumbled.

How long had I been out?I wiped the dirt from my hands on my tunic, then spent a moment just rubbing my temples. It didn’t help much, but my mind was clearing even if the pain wasn’t fading.

When I opened my eyes, I scanned the area. I didn’t recognize my surroundings. The tree bark was a lighter shade of green than I was used to,almost as bright as the grass below.

I really need to break the habit of letting old sages teleport me to strange places.

I didn’t notice any immediate dangers, fortunately, and based on the disruption in the foliage I suspected I was on a path. The brush had been cleared in a broad enough swath that it said “human trail” rather than “animal trail” to my quick assessment, but I didn’t see any boot marks or other clear indications to confirm my hypothesis.

No other people around. This was disconcerting, because my memory was gradually coming back, and I was not supposed to be alone.

“You’re going to be sent to another continent. It will be unfamiliar to you, but you’ll find your way in time. You must meet with their goddess and bring her to join our cause. Without her help, we stand no chance against the threat that is to come.”

That’s what the old sage had told us before he’d sent us away. Lesson One: Old sages will never tell you the full story.

This one wasn’t even the particularly infuriating kind with all the riddles and vagueness.

No, he’d just either omitted some key information or something had gone horribly wrong.

I didn’t know which was worse.

Either way, no friends nearby. I’d have to find them later.

At least I felt relatively intact. No horrifying teleportation damage to my person, at least as far as I could tell without a mirror.

I checked my side. The sword was there, as it always was, and locked firmly in its scabbard.

Good.

Couldn’t let that thing escape. There was no telling what it would get up to if I wasn’t around to keep it reigned in.

I still had my backpack on, too. I had been preparing for a journey to another land, even if I’d expected to show up somewhere a little bit more civilized.

I checked my pack.

I had most of the basics. A little bit of food, little bit of water, bandages,rope, mask of a long dead god, that sort of thing.

I heard something crack behind me.

I dropped my pack, spun, and drew my blade in a flash of unparalleled grace.

The squirrel was unimpressed.

I sighed, sheathing my weapon slowly to prevent any damage to the nearby terrain, and then picked my backpack back up.

Fortunately, I didn’t have anything particularly breakable inside.

Unfortunately, I didn’t have a tent with me, so I was going to need to find shelter pretty fast.

I glanced left and right. I couldn’t see any clear signs of human traffic in either direction, nor could I hear the sounds of water, so I picked a direction at random.

Left it is.

Before I wandered off, I set up a small rock formation to mark the spot in case I ended up wandering back there. It was easy to get lost in the middle of a forest, especially the particularly misty kind.

After that, I headed left.

The path was dirt and grass, almost completely straight, surrounded on both sides by forests. It was just broad enough for two people to walk abreast comfortably. It felt cultivated. Deliberate.

That wasn’t worrying in itself, though — manmade paths often were deliberately cultivated. Maybe this had been a common path to a town at one point, and someone had cleared out the trees and foliage on this path a year or two ago.

No, the worrying part was that it felt too similar. After walking for just a few minutes, I felt a bit dizzy, and I had the disconcerting sensation that I’d seen each and every tree in the path before.

“Trespasser, turn back. Before it is too late.”

The voice sounded like it was coming from all around me, but I couldn’t see a source. I pointed at myself. “Me? I mean, I assume you mean me, but if there are invisible people around, maybe you could clarify?”

I glanced around again. No source, no reply. I’d dealt with invisible adversaries before, and usually I could catch a hint of movement from thesound of footfalls. Maybe even a blur of motion, if the caster was less experienced. I didn’t catch any of that, though.

I kept walking.

My earlier assessment was accurate. A few minutes after that, I walked right back into the glade where I’d started, coming into it from the opposite side. I wasn’t imagining it; I found the cluster of stones I’d set as a marker.

That seemed...odd, though. The path was almost perfectly straight. I’d placed the bed of rocks because it was easy to get lost in most forests, where there weren’t coherent trails, or where there were lots of branches in the pathways that did exist.

I hadn’t taken any branches from the path. I’d seen a few of them, but I’d gone completely straight.

I ducked down, inspected the group of rocks to make certain they were the same ones, and headed off again.

“Turn back.”

The same voice. It didn’t alarm me quite as much this time, but it still grated on my nerves. Now it seemed like I was being followed, or maybe observed from a distance. I’d seen some spells that could be used to watch people from afar and send sound to a remote area. Maybe that was what was happening?“Do you mean ‘turn back’ as in ‘leave this place, pitiful mortal’? Or is it more of a ‘turn back, you’re going the wrong direction, and make a left at the fork’? If you’re just being helpful, some clarity would be appreciated.” Again, I looked and listened for movement, but I found nothing.

I resumed walking.

Took me about the same amount of time to end up right back where I started.

If there’s anything worse than a mysterious misty forest, it’s a magical mysterious misty forest.

I tried walking the opposite direction. Same result. Pushing through the forest in one of the other two directions was tougher, so it took me a little longer to appear back in my starting location.

The same voice spoke to me about mid-way. The message was marginally different this time, at least. “This is a sacred place. You are not welcome here.”

It had been pretty obvious the voice wasn’t just trying to give me directions, of course, but the fact that this was a sacred location? That was new and interesting.

I tried replying each time, of course. Not just to be polite. I was trying to get a reaction, just in case anyone was physically present. I was leaning toward the explanation that whoever was watching me was in a remote location, and since they didn’t appear to be responding directly to what I said, I wasn’t sure if they could even hear me.

I tried going part way down each path, then taking one of the branches.

That got me a little bit of new scenery, but I still ended up in the same grove somehow. After four attempts at trying branches of the path, I knew the brute force approach of just trying every trail was going to take too long.

I kept getting one message with each trip. “Turn back.”

“This place is deadly to outsiders.” “There is no treasure here, only death.”

“The Whispering Woods are not for your kind.”

I finally knew the name for the area after that one. And I had to admit, it was pretty apt. I might have gone for “Nameless Voice that Growls Angrily at Intruders Woods”, since it wasn’t really whispering, but I had to admit that the original name was a lot easier to remember.

I tried tying a shirt over my eyes and walking down the path blind. That was slow going. When I finally took off the makeshift blindfold, I was in an unfamiliar location...but after I walked a bit further, I still ended up back in the grove.

I tried it a second time, keeping the blindfold on longer, but it didn’t help. By this point, I was starting to recognize all the surrounding areas as well — the area I was looping through was maybe half a kilometer in each direction, and I was routinely running into landmarks, including my own tracks.

With a frustrated groan, I took off my backpack and sat down to think.

What’s causing me to loop back around? Is there a mental effect that’s causing me to think I’m going straight, even when I’m not? Perhaps something occurs a little ways into the woods, turning me around?Maybe there’s something happening where I’m losing some of my memories and wandering back?Or maybe I’m not actually going in a circle and there are several areas that look virtually identical?No, that last one is too much effort. It’s probably something simpler, like the mind effect or memory loss. Could be a property of the mist.

Okay, I can work with this. The area isn’t that big. I can figure out if it’s time of exposure to the mist that gets me to turn around, or if there are certain locations that are affecting me, or if there’s another cause entirely.

The voice kept “whispering” at me each time I walked through the area, but with no indication that it was hearing my replies. That was a shame, because some of my remarks were pretty amusing, and it was a shame that my foreboding observer wasn’t getting to enjoy them.

“Is it your job to just watch people and...be creepy at them? Or is this more of a hobby? Because if it’s a job, I could probably find you a better option.

Not to be rude, but you clearly have a talent for growling at strangers, and I can think of some people who could use that.”

I consoled myself with the fact that this whole experience was probably even more repetitive for them than it was for me.

I opened up my pack, found parchment and a quill, and started working on a map. I counted paces in each direction. It took me an almost identical number of paces to get back to the glade regardless of whether or not I went left or right, and it felt like the same amount of time.

That made it likely that the glade was physically at the center of whatever effect I was in, and that the effect had something to do with my location, not the amount of time that was passing.

Once I’d done that, I started dragging a stick behind me to make a line in the dirt. If I’d planned better, I could have just paid attention to my boot trails, but I’d walked over the area so many times now that it wouldn’t work for this particular test.

I glanced behind me periodically, watching the line I was making.

I’d walked just about half way through the total distance of the loop when I realized that the line behind me was gone, with the exception of the last few feet I’d just drawn.

I turned around, walking back the way I’d came...and there was the longer line again, leading a long way down the trail in front of me.

I felt a renewed wave of nausea hit me and paused to take a drink. That was when I noticed a small cluster of rocks that I hadn’t placed.

Foregoing the drink, I walked over to the rocks and knelt down to inspect them.

I found runes carved into the ones in the center.

There you are.

I didn’t know exactly what the rune did. Wasn’t my area of expertise, and honestly, I don’t even remember what it looked like.

I do remember the cathartic feeling when I smashed the rock, though. Mm.

Breaking things.

There was a flash of light when I shattered the stone, then I was elsewhere.

My stomach briefly protested in response to the teleportation effect, but fortunately, there was nothing immediately dangerous to assault me during the recovery.

I took in my surroundings. Same forest, or one designed to look suspiciously similar. Now I was on the border of a hillside, though, or maybe a mountainside. I couldn’t determine the scale due to the mist.

Either way, the stone outcropping near me had a pretty conspicuous looking cave with an obviously humanoid sized entrance.

I almost avoided it out of irritation. I didn’t like playing so directly into someone else’s hands, but I had a job to do. I’d been told that the goddess I was looking for had a thing for presenting challenges, but I wasn’t expecting anything quite this obvious... or something quite so soon after my arrival.

I’d been hoping to end up in a nice town with my friends, with some time to plan and gather information.

Hope can be a source of strength, but when it fails to deliver what I want, I’ve found a good degree of stubbornness to be an appropriate substitute.

So, I walked into the cave.

The mist was even thicker inside. I could only see a few feet in front of me, and even that was hazy.

I could feel the moisture in the air, and that moisture made it easier to pick up the scents around me. Moss, feathers, a hint of death.

My hand settled on the sword on my left hip out of instinct, but I didn’t draw it. There was no need to make things worse.

I was tempted to conjure a bit of flame to disperse the mist around me and provide some much-needed light, but the cost of maintaining it for a trek ofindeterminate length was more of a risk than I was willing to take.

Instead, I walked back out of the cave for a minute or so, found a branch of about an arm’s length, broke off the little twigs protruding from the sides, and tried to light it with the flint and steel from my pack.

After about a minute of trying to get a spark to catch on the wood, I gave up and just ignited the top of the branch with sorcery. A chill ran down my spine as I felt the spell’s cost, but it wasn’t much of a burden. A mere flicker of fire wouldn’t drain my strength as much as maintaining a ball of flame would have.

The branch blazed brightly as I strode into the depths of darkness.

Oh, come on. I’m not being that dramatic. A little bit of narrative flavor never hurt anyone. You could use a little more of it when you tell us the next part of your story, Corin.

Anyway, cave. Right.

With the makeshift torch, I could see a little bit further — just far enough to notice the trail of bones. I could also see that the cave went deep into the mountainside, expanding beyond the human-sized entrance into a vast cavern with an open area ahead and what looked like a couple different possible paths.

I ducked under a stalactite, reminded myself not to stand straight up, and knelt next to the first skull I could find.

Deer, I think. Looks about adult sized.

I inspected some of the other large bones nearby, frowning as I took in the size of the gouges on the ribs. They’d been pushed inward, and I could see gouges on several of them where something sharp had cut into the bone.

Crushed by claws, and big ones. Large enough to wrap around the entire torso of the deer, I think.

Either that, or five people with clubs and axes. Going to go with claws.

I stood up, hit my head, and died.

Kidding, kidding. I didn’t die until much later.

Didn’t even hit my head. I’d been climbing through enough caves that I knew to exercise due caution. I remained in a crouch until the cave widened, and the ceiling was high enough to stand back up without bashing my head.

It was fortunate that I was close to the ground for a while, because that made it easier to notice the spine crawlers.

What are spine crawlers, you ask? Why, they’re like centipedes, only three feet long, about eight inches thick, and, as I swiftly learned, swift to anger.

Their gray skin blended near perfectly with the stone floor — it was the glint from the light reflecting on their carapaces that gave them away.

By that point, it was almost too late. I was only inches from a nest, and one was slithering toward my feet.

I backpedaled because, well, no one wants to get eaten by giant poisonous worms. That took me into the other monster nest.

Vines wrapped around my legs as the winged beasts descended from the ceiling. They looked like bats, but with wings that were more birdlike, if bird feathers were metallic and razor-edged.

Also, given how rapidly the vines were moving from the cave floor to encircle me, one or both of the monster types could use nature sorcery.

Yeah, not a fun cave.

I tugged on the vines. Animated or not, they were vines, and not particularly strong. I snapped one just in time to see one of the razor bats — no idea if that’s what they’re typically called, just going to go with it — flapping its wings in my direction.

Which, predictably, sent a wave of razor-sharp feathers in my direction.

The feathers weren’t actually metal, so I couldn’t turn them aside with metal sorcery. I resisted the instinct to draw my blade and hurled myself out of the way, narrowly avoiding the quills.

The few lingering vines wrapped around me weren’t sufficient to hold me in place, but the ones I snapped were quickly replaced by more, and now I was on the ground with razor bats above me and a spine crawler, well, crawling closer.

I flared my aura, surrounding my body in a silvery blur. Vines disintegrated. Inches of stone beneath me vanished, not even dust left in my aura’s wake.

I rolled in the opposite direction of where the vines had been, my right hand burning from the power I’d just used. I didn’t even have time to regret it before I was pushing myself to the side, failing to avoid another barrage of feathers entirely. A quill glanced along my back, drawing a trail of blood.

I rolled, grabbing the quill with two fingers and hurling it right back at the bat.

It missed. I’m a good shot, but it was a feather, not a throwing knife. I threw the knife from my belt next. I hit the bat that time, and it fell.

The spine crawlers were on top of it in seconds, biting with venom-laced fangs. I scurried backward, retrieving my fallen torch, and watched as another spine crawler dislodged its jaw and sprayed acid on the still-wriggling razor bat.

A good portion of the bat melted away before it ceased struggling entirely. A smaller portion of my knife melted along with it.

And I liked that knife.

Rather than extract revenge for the vicious daggercide that had just been committed, however, I took the more cautious course of pushing myself to my feet and inching away from the scene. The spine crawlers didn’t seem to notice me at all now that they had easier prey, but I didn’t want to risk aggravating them further with any sudden movements.

Burning through those vines with my aura had been...unwise. Overusing it was dangerous in a different way from conjuring too much fire. It wouldn’t harm me.

Not physically, at least.

Practicing any type of sorcery generates essence — what you’d call mana where you’re from — of that type in the body. That essence changes you; subtly with some types of mana, more overtly with others.

I could use three fairly common types of sorcery: flame, stone, and metal. I wasn’t really sure what the first one did to my body, but stone and metal essence both worked to reinforce skin, muscles, and bone. I’d practiced metal sorcery daily since childhood, and that had made my body both stronger and more resilient than any ordinary human.

I’d disintegrated the vines using another, lesser known type of sorcery. I’d practiced it unknowingly for years by using the sword sheathed at my side, and during that process, it had bled into my essence.

Now I was generating some of that type of essence myself all the time, even without the sword.

That wasn’t a good thing.

The aura that was around me at all times?It breaks things.

Anything I’m in contact with for long enough wears down. Food, clothes, armor, weapons - it all breaks. I’m not talking about just accelerating the normal passage of time, either. That’d be ruin sorcery, which is related, but less dangerous.

My aura is gradually cutting through everything around me — erasing pieces of everything it touches. This is not convenient.

For example, if I wear items that generate protective sorcery, like a shield sigil?My aura breaks the barrier down in minutes, rendering the item worthless.

Even the magical object itself will gradually break down, unless the item is shielded well enough to prevent the aura from cutting through it. Very few defensive spells are that resilient.

I had precisely three things on me that were powerful enough to survive long-term exposure to my aura without harm. My sword, the scabbard designed to hold it, and a weird mask that I really shouldn’t have held onto.

My aura was already too strong for me to suppress it entirely at any given time; it was cutting away at my backpack, my boots, everything around me, just very slowly. I probably had about a week to get to a town before my equipment fell apart.

Any time I used that type of sorcery, I’d make the problem worse.

Permanently, unless I also improved my degree of control over the aura, and that was easier said than done. Drawing the sword involved the same type of risk; a portion of that destructive magic would leak into me any time it wasn’t sheathed.

If I didn’t find a solution, I’d eventually get to the point where I couldn’t touch non-magical objects at all.

Or people.

I didn’t exactly care for the idea of never being able to hug my friends or family again.

The old man who had sent me to this place?He was a famous scholar of sorcerous theory, and one of the few people who might have had an idea of how to help me.

But there was always a price.

And with that in mind, I continued into the cave. My back still ached fromthe brush with the razor bat’s quill. I waited until I was several minutes in before pausing, putting down the torch, and digging bandages and ointment out of my bag. The wound was relatively shallow, but not shallow enough that I could ignore it entirely. I applied the ointment and bound the wound, then continued on.

“Turn back.” The voice boomed, and it sounded like it was coming from directly in front of me.

I saw the pair of glowing motes of light — presumably eyes - in the distant mist a moment later.

I waved my off-hand. “Oh, it’s you! I was hoping I’d eventually get to meet you.”

The twin lights blinked.

I walked closer, passing the torch to my off-hand. I wanted my sword arm ready, but I didn’t move it close to the hilt. I didn’t want to appear threatening.

“Leave. This is your final warning.”

I ducked under another low portion of the ceiling as I approached. The cavern walls encroached around me until I could barely fit down the tunnel, then widened again into a massive, almost circular chamber. The mist was the thickest I’d seen so far. I could feel the moisture on my skin, taste it with every breath.

I could vaguely make out the outline of a humanoid figure ahead of me. That was a bit of a comfort, since I wasn’t sure I should expect anything close to human. Plenty of monsters could produce a human-sounding voice.

“I’m sorry to intrude. I don’t mean to be rude.” I grinned, pausing now that I was almost close enough to get a good look at who I was talking to. I could see the outline of hair, almost floor-length. Slender arms and legs...did those hands end in claws?Yeah, those were definitely claws.

The figure must have been wearing white. They blended in with the mists so thoroughly that I couldn’t make out any other details. I guessed they were probably about ten feet away now, which was about the furthest I could see in the haze.

“Then you should have left when you had a chance.” They raised a clawed hand. “Prepare yourself.”

I raised a hand. “Woah, hold on, slow down. No need to get aggressive. Itried talking to you back in the forest, but I didn’t get any reply. I assume those messages were just stored somehow, maybe enchantments in the rocks, like the ones that were leading me in circles?”

The figure folded their arms. “That is irrelevant. This is a sacred place, and you are trespassing.”

“Sorry, sorry! Didn’t mean to intrude. I was teleported to this forest, and I’m lost. I’m supposed to be looking for a goddess. They call her Selys here, I believe? Are you her?”

The figure tilted its head to the side. “...Are you mocking me? Is that a serious question?”

“Completely serious.”

The person....creature...thing exhaled heavily enough that I felt it. The air pushed me back a step. I steadied myself, bracing for an attack, but realized it had just sighed.

Humanoid or not, this thing really knew how to breathe. “I am not the goddess, but I do serve her. I am the guardian of the Shrine of the Dawnbringer, one of the Six Sacred Swords.”

I nodded. I was finally making some progress here. “Okay, great. If you’re in her employ, could you direct me to where I can find her?”

“If thou dost seek the goddess, thee must climb the Soaring Spires. For the goddess resides in the skies above, and only atop the spires might ye glimpse upon her greatness. But, be forewarned, ere ye have false hope — centuries live and die between the successes of would-be heroes that seek to reach the spire’s summit.”

Yeah, they actually used ‘thou’. Apparently they had penchants for both growling and theatrics. Maybe if I was lucky I’d get a prophecy at some point, too.

“That’s great, thank you for that. So, there are a few of these spires?” “Six are the spires, as six are the sacred swords.”

“Huh. Sounds like that’s not a coincidence, then?”

The figure lowered its head, as if in prayer. “Atop each spire lays one of the god beasts, ferocious guardians that await those who would dare to seek an audience with the goddess. None would stand a chance against these beasts, save for the sacred swords — one blade forged to survive the power of each beast.”

I considered that. “Okay. Any spires I can go to where the beast has already been defeated, maybe skip the trouble? I do like fighting titanic monsters, don’t get me wrong, but I’m kind of in a hurry.”

The figure ahead of me growled in the most hostile fashion yet. “No god beast has ever been truly defeated. Heroes wielding the blades have earned sufficient respect to pass.”

“Got it, that makes sense. I should have known this wouldn’t be that simple.” I sighed in a somewhat less spectacular fashion than the creature I was talking to. “And you’re the guardian of one of the swords?”

“So I am. Since time immemorial, my people have served here—”

“Wow. You must be really bored. Could I interest you in a different line of work? You seem much more familiar with the area than I am, maybe you could—”

“Insolent creature! My task is a sacred calling, given by the goddess herself. Your banter and jesting is what bores me. Either flee from my sight, or challenge me. Those are your choices.”

I frowned. This was not going where I wanted it to. “I apologize. I did not mean to insult your calling. If you require a challenge for the sword, would it be possible for me to challenge you something other than fighting? I mean this question with the utmost sincerity. I have Crowns pieces in my backpack, for example, and a deck of playing cards—”

“If it is a sacred sword you wish to wield, it is your prowess with a blade that must be proven.”

“What are the terms? Could we have a match to the first successful hit of any kind, for instance?”

“We would fight until one of us could fight no longer. I would not be gentle. Face me and you should expect to lose your life.”

“Would surrender be an option for either side?” “No.”

“Could I convince you to alter the terms to a middle ground? First blood, perhaps?”

“The terms are set down by tradition, they cannot be altered.”

I nodded sadly. “I expected as much. And the sword is right past you?” “Indeed. It lays in the grove of three shrines, untouched in the decade sinceit was last claimed.”

So, someone had tried this a decade ago. Presumably, they’d failed, because the creature I was speaking to had implied it had been hundreds of years since a success. Maybe that had been hyperbole, though. They did seem to have a flair for the dramatic. Worse than mine, even. “Okay. And just to be clear, your responsibility is to guard this specific tunnel?”

“Such is the path to the sword.”

I focused, trying to peer through the mist as best I could. I thought I could just barely make out an exit tunnel on the opposite side of the chamber, maybe twenty feet away.

I picked my torch back up, waved, and shifted my stance as if I was about to turn around. “Okay, thanks for all the information.”

“You’re...leaving?”

I think they actually sounded a little disappointed. “Yep. I’m not going to invade someone’s home and fight them just so I can walk through a particular cavern. I figure now that I broke your little teleportation rune, I can probably just walk out of the forest and find a town. But you’re a great storyteller — that part about the spire was riveting. You’re welcome to come with me if you’d like.”

“You...mock me.”

I shook my head. “Nope. I just don’t think that anyone should have to live their life in a cave because a goddess told them to, and I’m certainly not going to fight you just because a goddess put you here.”

The creature in front of me growled and lowered their stance. “You insult me and the goddess alike.”

“I don’t mean to be insulting.” I raised my off-hand in a defensive gesture. “Just sympathizing. My own life has been largely dictated by the whims of the gods, and I’m tired of it. If you’d like to get out of this situation, I’d be glad to help you.”

No growl that time, which was progress. Just a tilt of the head to the side, maybe a bit of introspection. “I will not leave while my task remains undone.”

“I understand.” I nodded affably. “Well, I’m leaving then.”

“See that you do not return unless you are prepared to face my challenge.” “Right. That won’t be a problem.”

I shifted to the left as if I was turning around...and rushed forward at top speed.

I’d gone left because the torch was currently in my right hand, and as I sprinted past the creature, I waved it right in front of their eyes. Not close enough to hit them — I was just going for momentary blindness.

They roared, far louder than their body should have been able to, and the entire room shook. Dust and debris rained from the ceiling. Fortunately, I was used to sprinting across uneven terrain, and I maintained my footing. I turned toward the exit tunnel as I moved, finding it easily as I approached.

I was only a couple feet away when a wall of stone shot upward from the ground, blocking the path.

I spun just in time to dodge a spiked tail that was arcing toward my face. “Coward! Craven! Curr!” The creature roared, lunging at me with clawedhands. As they drew closer, I got a better look. They had a human-looking face and body, but they were covered from head to toe in white scales, and they had a serpentine tail covered in wicked six-inch spikes.

I side-stepped the lunge and the creature missed, stumbling. I realized that it was probably still half-blind from the torch, and they had probably responded to my movements through hearing or another sense.

That didn’t stop them from whipping its tail around the moment they failed to connect with me, though. It was a low sweep, so I hopped over it, backing up and keeping the torch in front of me. “A little redundant there. Coward and craven are pretty much the same thing. I appreciate alliteration, though.”

They just roared at me in reply. They were done talking for the moment, it seemed.

I considered sprinting back toward the entrance, but they were in reach of me now, and faster than I’d expected. I wasn’t confident I could outpace them, especially after it recovered its sight.

Instead, I stepped to the side and began to circle them, moving gradually back to the area that had been sealed by the wall. I wasn’t a master of stone sorcery, but I could use it. If I could find a few moments, maybe I could make a gap big enough to climb through.

“I’d really like to avoid fight—”

They swiped a claw and knocked the torch right out of my hand.

I stared blankly for a moment as the light source clattered across the floor, then punched the scaled creature in the face.

Hard.

The creature staggered back, raising a hand to its cheek. Their expression changed.

To a smile. “Better.” Their blue eyes seemed to shimmer in the dark. That was not a good sign.

I’d learned to control my swings a long time ago, because I liked being able to spar with humans without crushing their bones to powder.

But I’d taken that swing out of instinct. It wasn’t quite my full strength, but I would have put my fist through the stone wall without any difficulty.

They weren’t even visibly bruised.

Their return punch came a moment later, and I raised an arm to block. The blow carried me off the ground and threw me back a good ten feet. I landed in a slide, my arm aching from the force of the impact.

Motion sorcery, I realized. No amount of pure physical strength would have knocked me upward like that; instead, the strike had carried with it a blast of magic that enhanced and spread out the impact.

I knew what was coming next.

They blurred, flashing forward in a burst of kinetic energy, closing the gap between us in an instant.

But I’d fought motion sorcerers more times than I could count. Even before they landed, I was rotating my hips for a real punch, the kind I used to practice tearing through breastplates.

I hit them dead-on in the solar plexus. That actually slowed them down.

They doubled over, clutching their chest and coughing.

For a moment, I was concerned that I’d misjudged and hit too hard.

Their tail whipped over their head, spiked tip arcing toward my throat. I grabbed it just in time, cutting one of my fingers on a spike in the process. They jerked the tail back, but I maintained my grip and stumbled forward.

With my free hand, I tried to throw another punch, but they grabbed my arm with both of theirs. We were practically on top of each other at that point, so I threw a knee upward. They countered by raising their own leg to block, which I hadn’t expected.

They snarled, biting at me with a set of teeth that were just slightly sharper than human ones. I stepped back to avoid the bite, and they finally managed to pull their tail free from my grip. Before they could swing it again, though, I slammed my boot down on their foot.

That got my hands free while they recoiled, and I used that freedom to back off a few feet. My left hand was still bleeding from where it had brushed against a spine, but not badly.

They backed off as well, apparently assessing me. That seemed good, until they kept backing off to the point where they disappeared into the mist.

I glanced around nervously, then headed for where I’d dropped the torch. It went out before I reached it.

Resh.

I was plunged into darkness. I couldn’t see anything, but I could hear something moving to the side of me.

Something big.

“Can I interest you in calling this a draw?”

I heard a growl, followed by what sounded like bones snapping to my side.

I continued to inch toward where I’d last seen the torch. Since blinding the creature had seemingly worked, it was possible that the creature would have a tough time finding me in the dark, even if its night vision was better than mine.

I was pretty close to where I’d thought the torch was when I ran into something much larger than I was.

I took a step back. I hadn’t remembered a wall there. I raised a hand and ran it across	scales. Large scales, each the size of my fist.

Uh oh.

I stepped back just before something slammed into me the size of my entire midsection, hard enough to throw me almost ceiling-high. I landed hard and fell on my side, rolling a few feet across the floor.

That hurt.

I barely managed to push myself to the side before something landed on the stone where I’d been moments before, smashing the stone of the cavern floor.

Even without the light, I was close enough to get a glimpse of the clawed appendage that landed near my face. It was even bigger than what I’d felt connect with me, probably about the size of the upper half of my body.

I’d been thrown and battered by nothing more than a glancing blow.

I pushed myself to my feet with a cough, raising my left hand.

The darkness wasn’t slowing this thing down as much as I’d hoped, but it was making it impossible for me to evaluate my opponent effectively.

Burn. A sphere of flame the size of a watermelon appeared in my hand, and a chill ran down my spine as the spell extracted its cost. I rarely conjured fire on this scale due to the tax on my body, but I needed this flame for two reasons — both to see, and as a potential detergent to further attacks.

“Foolish human,” they spoke, the room trembling with each word. “Had you chosen to fight me honorably from the outset, I would not have used this form.”

As it spoke, I took in what I was looking at.

A huge, serpentine head with a pair of vicious horns, each of which was large enough to impale me with ease.

A leonine body covered in hardened scales, with four massive clawed hands. Though standing on four legs, it was still twice as tall as I was.

And its wings were vast, at least twenty feet in total span, nearly brushing the ceiling and walls.

It was a creature of legend.

Unfortunately, I had no idea what I was looking at. They don’t have dragons where I come from.