CHAPTER XX – BALLROOM DANCING



“Store: Selys-Lyann.”

“Store: Broken Transference Sword.” “Store: Etching rod.”

“Store: Additional food supplies.” “Store: Additional water.”

“Store: Fifty feet of rope.”

“Store: Ten foot pole.” “Store: Flint and steel.” “Store: Tent.”

“Store: Pillow.”

“Store: Universal Mana Crystal.”

“Store: Cloak of Temperature Shielding.” “Store: Ring of Derek Controlling.”

I still didn’t have an official name for the ring, but did still find that one hilarious.

I probably would have just worn the ring if I’d figured out how to make it safe, but I hadn’t determined how to remove the anti-tampering runes yet. If I could do that, I could make it respond to my own voice alone, much like Orden had. That would make it an extremely useful too.

Maybe not a moral tool, but I’d worry about that later.

Sera watched me with an amused expression. “Are you sure you’ve got everything you need for the ball? You might want to put two or three more swords in there, just in case.”

I nodded seriously. “You’re right. Go get Ceris. I’ll go ask Patrick to get the Dawnbringer replica.”

She folded her arms. “You’re joking. This is a party, Corin. And, while I know those are more terrifying to you than the average monster, I don’t think an arsenal is going to solve that.”

“You might be surprised how much a few artifact-level weapons can solve.”

Sera sighed. “Fine. I’ll get Ceris. But only to make you feel better. I still think this is ludicrous. There are going to be hundreds of attuned there.

Probably thousands. Even Saffron would think twice about attacking a group of that size.”

I sucked in a breath, my hand trembling slightly when I heard his name. “You didn’t see him, Sera. I respect that you don’t think anything is going to happen, but...just let me have this?”

“Fine, fine. But after that, you have to let me dress you up. You’re not going to a ball wearing that.”

I was wearing utilitarian boots, thick trousers, and a simple black doublet.

It was a very similar outfit to what I’d first worn into the spire.

I felt vaguely offended. “I’m dressed practically.”

“You’re practically undressed.” She rolled her eyes. “Please tell me you have at least some formalwear?”

“Formal...wear?” I replied in a teasing tone.

“You’re impossible. Fine. I’m going to get my sword, and then I’m taking you shopping. We can bring Marissa. She’s almost as hopeless as you are.”

That gave me an idea. “Well, if we’re going shopping, and I’m going with Marissa and Patrick... Maybe we should all match?”

Sera folded her arms. “Clearly, having a theme would help, yes.” I smirked. “I have an idea.”

***A few hours later, I had successfully traded a newly-made mana watch toElora Theas in exchange for four professionally-tailored dueling tunics.

The mana watch wasn’t worth nearly as much as the tunics, but Elora had seen her sibling with one, and that meant she needed one. It was a sign of Elora’s immense wealth that she barely seemed to think about making such a disproportionate trade.

I’d remembered that the dress she’d worn was made from the same material as a dueling tunic, and I’d guessed — correctly — that it meant she knew a tailor that worked with the materials.

The truth was even more impressive. House Theas owned one of the largest suppliers of Ironweave and Steelweave Silk in the city, as well as a number of tailoring shops.

It had been a simple thing for Elora to clear a few hours in the schedule of a tailor and have tunics adjusted to fit each of us. If we had a little longer, she claimed she would have had the tailor make them for us from scratch, but we didn’t have the time.

Once the tunics were adjusted, she had them dyed the blue and white colors of House Cadence.

She also provided us with matching trousers, made of the same silk. Those were free, simply because Elora wouldn’t imagine providing us with anything less than full matching suits.

Even Sera, who had been previously quite excited by a freshly-purchased dress, was happy to cast it aside for the matching outfits.

I didn’t care much for how they looked. I just felt better in the comforting weight of a dueling tunic, and the knowledge that it could stop at least a few blasts from a dueling cane.

It was nearing evening when we finished, which was important, because it was the night of the ball.

And all of us, including Elora, were going.

***We arrived at the ball a few hours later, traveling at first by train and then taking the rest of the journey in a carriage that Elora provided.

The ball was being held at the estate of Archduchess Lanoy, the current ruler of one of Valia’s four archduchies. I’d met a few members of her family, but I hadn’t met her personally.

Her son, Councilor Gerald Lanoy, was one of the council members that I’dseen fighting against Keras in the memory crystal that Jin had brought me earlier in the year. I wondered if he’d be in attendance.

Councilor Lanoy had called himself Tenjin’s adjutant in the vision, which implied that he worked for Tenjin personally. If it wasn’t a ceremonial title, I suspected he might have answers to some of my questions.

Our carriage moved into a line of dozens — maybe hundreds — of other arriving carriages.

The winter ball was a celebration for all the students who had managed to finish the year. Most of the school’s students would be there, as well as many teachers and important political figures. Thousands of people in total.

In a group of that size, some of those people undoubtedly worked for groups that had reasons to hurt me. More followers of the Tyrant, or people who had worked with Orden, for example.

I would have felt better if Derek or Keras was going, but they were both staying behind.

Keras had a good reason — his last encounter with Councilor Lanoy had been when the man had lured him into a meeting to have him arrested. I could see why he wasn’t exactly thrilled at the idea of going to Lanoy’s home.

Derek was a little vaguer, simply claiming he had “somewhere else to be”.

Moreover, he was still healing from his injuries from his fight with Saffron. Apparently, I wasn’t the only one who had walked out of that with a few broken bones.

We passed dozens of outlying buildings, each flying banners of House Lanoy. Up ahead, our destination could not be described as a simple mansion like Derek’s house had been.

“Palace” would have been a better term.

We approached through a garden lined with crimson flowers and bronze statues depicting heroes of ages long gone.

When we finally made our way through the gardens, we found our way up a marble stairway wide enough for hundreds. Ahead of that, we could see the main entrance. Titanic doors that appeared to be wrought from solid gold were flanked by tall white pillars that held aloft the rest of the structure.

It was a monument to opulence that made me supremely uncomfortable.

A single, cylindrical tower loomed above the rest of the structure, with an artistic rendition of a serpent wrapped around it and resting its head at the top. That, at least, I could appreciate.

Marissa, Patrick, and I approached the line to the entrance. I felt awkward, constrained in the press of hundreds of bodies.

Sera had chosen to go separately, along with her date, and promised to meet us inside. I still didn’t know who she was going with. She clearly was hoping to make it a surprise.

I hoped it’d be a good one.

As we stood in the line, Marissa and Patrick made idle conversation with each other and a few other students. I made a few replies when prompted.

I was too distracted to say much, since I was spending most of my attention looking for Jin.

I didn’t find him.

We made our way inside. Guards in golden mail, holding ceremonial glaives, checked us for weapons.

We’d anticipated that, and I’d stored all of our weapons in the Jaden Box. I had that in the pouch on my side. Fortunately, they didn’t ask to take the box, otherwise I would have been in a difficult situation.

After determining that we were unarmed, the guards pointed us toward the main ballroom.

Because, obviously, a place of this size had several ballrooms.

Apparently, the first-year students were being sent to the main ballroom because there were more of us.

I presumed there would be separate events and ceremonies in each room, and that the most important guests were going to be moving back and forth between the ballrooms for speeches.

There were no assigned seats for the students, only for important guests.

The interior of the ballroom was just as gaudy as the exterior of the building. It was divided into four quarters, each with a different color of tiles on the floor. White for student seating, black for adult guests, blue for dancing, and green for refreshments.

In the center of everything was a smaller square which contained a raised stage. At the moment, it contained a group of musicians, who were playing a classical tune.

I could also see a podium on it, where I assumed speeches would take place later in the evening.

I wasn’t looking forward to those. They always ended up being terribly boring.

The ceiling was made of glass or some sort of transparent crystal, allowing the light of the stars to shine down from above.

The walls were lined with portraits of people who were probably famous, but who I didn’t know or care the slightest bit about.

Now that we were inside, theoretically we had gotten to the part of the party that was supposed to be fun.

I...just wasn’t sure how I was supposed to make that part happen.

Marissa, Patrick, and I found an open table. The other two sat down to wait for Sera to arrive, but I was feeling too jittery to sit.

I glanced around at my options. Dancing was terrifying.

Politicians? Who wanted to talk to them? Certainly not me. Other students?Nah.

The last section was food.

Eating it is, I decided. Eating forever.

“I’m going to go get food,” I declared as I left the others, bravely delving into the massive crowd.

This was a mistake. There are people here. I should have just sat down.

As I attempted to navigate through the press of bodies, I searched the area for any familiar faces that I needed to avoid.

In the area with the important guests, I could see several people of interest.

Elora was sitting at the lead table, this time wearing a dress that looked like it had been wrought entirely from silver. I knew better — it was just another type of dyed metallic weave, and likely offered similar protection to her previous dress. Still, it looked impressive.

She was laughing with a gentleman who looked to be about her age that I didn’t recognize. He had a strong resemblance to Derek, aside from his hair, which was short and white. A sibling, maybe?Ugh, Derek and Elora’s relationship was the worst kind of complicated.

I didn’t see Sheridan, although I knew they were supposed to be at the party somewhere. Presumably, they had gone to the other ballroom, either to avoid Elora or simply to talk to other people they knew.

Councilor Lanoy was sitting a few seats down from Elora, next to an older woman that I presumed was his mother, the host of the party. They were both chatting with Chancellor Wallace, who was standing on the other side of the table.

I recognized a few other people, including a couple teachers and some other wealthy nobles my parents had introduced me to years and years ago. I assumed many of my professors would be in attendance, but fortunately, I didn’t see any of them right away.

I finally made it through the general crowd and into the food line.

What am I even doing here? This is absurd. There’s no reason for me to be at a party like this.

I saw Jin just a few moments after that, leaning up against one of the walls with a cocktail in hand.

Oh.

That’s why.

He winked at me.

I very deliberately looked away.

I continued waiting in line, observing everywhere Jin wasn’t as a way to fill my time.

As expected, there were hundreds of students already here, and more pouring in all the time. Occasionally, I’d hear some commotion as some high profile guest entered the room. Occasionally, mild applause, usually for someone on the Council of Lords or someone in a fancy military uniform.

The most interesting thing for me turned out to be the runes on the walls. Like Elora and Derek’s household, this place was heavily enchanted. It made sense to have a degree of security for any locale that was going to house this many people, but they’d been thorough.

I saw dozens of copies of runes I recognized — shielding, anti- teleportation, anti-scrying, that sort of thing. The specific shapes were similar to what I recognized, but not identical; given the architecture of the room, I suspected that was because they were old fashioned rune designs.

Long lines of the protective glyphs trailed from floor to ceiling, spaced outroughly every twenty feet. I assumed that indicated that the runes had a limited area of effect — either that, or they were just reinforcing them with redundancy. It was impressive either way.

I wasn’t the only one inspecting them, either. I saw a few others near the walls, admiring the intricacy of the runic patterns.

One person in particular caught my eyes — a young woman with purple hair that trailed all the way down to her hips. There were plenty of people with dyed hair with unusual colors at the party, so that wouldn’t have necessarily caught my attention on its own.

I noticed a couple things that made her more eye-catching.

The first thing I noticed was that she was walking right up to the runes and tracing figures in the air next to them. A mnemonic device for remembering the shapes, maybe?Nobody was stopping her, and the runes weren’t going out, so I didn’t see any cause for alarm. Still, it was unusual enough that I registered the need to keep an eye on her.

The second thing I realized was that I’d seen her somewhere before. But where? Somewhere at the academy, maybe? I couldn’t quite remember.

Before looking away, I tried turning on my attunement to see how powerful she was, but the blur of hundreds of auras made it almost impossible to see anything at a distance. I thought her aura was probably just clear, though.

Notably, she wasn’t the only person with a clear aura, or no aura at all. In fact, most of the people in the guest section, as well as most of the serving staff, didn’t have auras.

I hadn’t seen so many non-attuned civilians in one place in ages. I’d started to think of being attuned as the default, when in reality, most people never earned one.

After a few more minutes of awkwardness, I made it to the food. I heaped far more than I was likely to actually eat on my plate. Realizing that the drinks were in bottles, I tucked a few under a shoulder to be considerate to my friends. Then I awkwardly waddled through the crowd, spending most of the time desperately trying to keep the bottles from slipping and breaking on the floor.

I made it back to our table just in time for Sera’s grand entrance to the ball. There was a hush near the entrance as she walked into the room.

No, not because of her. In spite of being far more politically savvy than I was, Sera wasn’t well-known. Not yet, at least.

It was her date that drew stares and murmurs.

He was hard not to notice, given his wingspan was nearly twice his height.

I sighed, putting down the plate and bottles so I could hold my face in my hands.

Of course Sera had brought Vanniv to the ball.

He was tall, charming, and looked like a fashion model. His abs looked like they were literally chiseled.

I wasn’t sure how she’d managed to find him a suit in House Cadence’s colors with slits for his wings. Maybe that was why she’d insisted on coming separately?The crowd had to part around them, simply because Vanniv’s wings were so wide that he couldn’t enter the room otherwise.

They made their way over to our table. “Corin! Dear Brother.” Sera opened her arms.

I rolled my eyes at her as theatrically as possible, then obliged in giving her a hug. “Hello, dear Sister.”

Nearby Vanniv grinned and opened his arms as well. Not toward anyone in particular.

Patrick, always a good sport, rose from his chair and gave Vanniv a hug.

Vanniv seemed briefly startled, then grinned and pulled Patrick in closer, like they’d been long-lost brothers.

I felt a pang of envy as that thought ran through my mind and I remembered what the spire had taken away from me.

“Patrick! Ah, I see you have the lovely Marissa with you as well.” Vanniv turned his head downward and offered Marissa an exaggerated wink.

Marissa folded her arms. “So, you’re Sera’s mystery date?”

Sera finally let me go and stepped back. “He most certainly is! I considered all sorts of students, but I thought I’d go with a real man.”

“And there is no realer man than I,” Vanniv replied with a nod. “Excepting for the fact that I am a magically created copy of the original Vanniv, of course, and thus completely fake.”

Sera patted him on the arm. “There, there. You’re real enough for me, dear.”

“I know. Ah!” Vanniv snatched one of my bottles off the table. “Drinks!This is what I’m here for.”

Sera sat down and leaned back in her chair. “You’re here to be my date.” “Yes, yes. And drinking. Drinking many things.” Vanniv smiled. He didn’tseem to know how to get the stopper out of the bottle — which was understandable, I didn’t either — so he simply snapped the stem at the top and began to drink.

The luxuries of having stone skin, I supposed. Never have to worry about mild lacerations.

“This is quite good! I believe I am getting drunk.”

I didn’t have the heart to tell him that it was apple juice. Apparently, neither did anyone else.

I leaned over toward Sera. “So...Vanniv. Isn’t he technically only, like, ten weeks old?”

“This copy of him might be, sure, but he has the memories of his original self. Who is twenty, thank-you-very-much.”

I chuckled. “And the fact that he’s compelled to obey your every whim doesn’t strike you as unethical?”

“Please, Corin. I’m showing him off at a fancy party. Vanniv and I are both too classy—”

Vanniv broke off the top of a second bottle, but a little too hard this time, spilling half the contents on the table.

“Correction.” Sera sighed. “I am far too classy to do anything untoward with my control of a summoned monster.”

I laughed. “Fair.”

I turned away, focusing on eating my food.

I didn’t mention the fact that I was pretty sure that Sera had told us she had a date for the ball before she’d made her contract with Vanniv.

If she wanted to play this off like it was her plan all along, I wasn’t going to get in her way.

She deserved a chance to smile and laugh. And, as weird as it might haveseemed, Vanniv did, too.

Sera wasn’t going to let me get away with teasing her without a bit of retribution, though. “So, Corin. You’re looking quite charming in that new outfit. I can tell that at least one person is particularly taken with it.”

Oh no.

I coughed. “Please don’t tell me—”

“He’s staring right at you. Quite brazenly, in fact. My, my.”

I sighed, turning to find that Jin had relocated to lean against a different wall, but that he was still watching me. He noticed that I’d noticed him and tilted his hat downward.

He’s...not going to stop doing that, is he?I set my fork down. “I’ll be right back.” “Good luck! Don’t get your heart broken.”

I shook my head as I left the table, heading toward Jin.

“Corin,” he said amiably as I approached. “What a surprise to find you here.”

I folded my arms. “You could stare at me a little less, you know.” Jin smirked. “Why? There’s nothing else that interests me here.” Do not be charmed.

He is not charming.

There is no charming happening here. None.

“While I appreciate your interest, there are plenty of fascinating people here. And a band! Playing music. You could watch the band.”

“Watching the band isn’t what people come to a ball for, Corin.” He pointed a hand toward another section of the room.

The dancing section.

I watched the distant figures swaying together in harmony. Holding each other close.

It was a romantic ideal. The kind of thing that we’d read about as children, seen in plays and operas.

How could I justify doing that with someone who I didn’t trust?My jaw tightened. “I haven’t forgiven you. I can’t forgive you.”

Jin looked away. “I know. I don’t expect you to. But that conflict we had...does that really cancel out the things we’ve shared?”

“No,” I shook my head, “But it does make it difficult for me to want to have anything to do with you.”

Jin winced. “It would appear I’ve made a mistake in coming here.” He nodded, more to himself then to me. “Have a good night, Corin.”

He turned to leave.

I spoke without thinking. “Wait.”

Jin turned toward me, raising an eyebrow. “One song.”

Jin tilted his head.

“I’ll dance with you for one song. That’s it. No more.”

Jin exhaled heavily. “...I understand.” He spoke again, more quietly. “I’ll be glad to have a chance to dance with you at all.”

He led the way toward the dance area. He took my hands.

We swayed together, awkwardly at first.

Don’t forget what he did. This doesn’t mean anything. The song ended.

We continued to sway, even in the silence.

***Minutes passed. Perhaps hours. Finally, I broke away.

“Thank you, Corin.” Jin bowed at the waist. “You have made my evening worthwhile.”

I bowed in return. “I...good night, Jin.” “Good night, Corin.”

Jin disappeared into the crowd.

I breathed a sigh of relief, slipping back to the table. Sera waggled her eyebrows at me suggestively.

I just glared at her. I couldn’t even articulate my thoughts, I certainly couldn’t come up with anything clever to say.

I settled for eating my now-cold food. It was still pretty good.

I found myself finally starting to relax a little bit, now that Jin was gone, and I had something to focus on aside from my insecurities.

Unfortunately, my insecurities were creeping up right behind me. “C...Corin?”

I froze at the sound of that voice, my fork still in-hand.

Gently, I set the tool down, and turned to face the horror behind me.

The young woman was just my age, with her auburn hair cut just above the shoulders. She wore large, round glasses with tiny runes etched into the frames.

Her dress was white with silver accents. Her family colors, that I’d seen a hundred times. It was accented by a large silver broach, etched with runes that were easier to read if I had the ability to pay any attention.

The frilly white umbrella she carried was very traditionally ladylike. It didn’t suit her in the slightest.

My voice caught in my throat. It wasn’t because I was choking, fortunately.

“Um, hello. I don’t know if you remember me, but, um...” “Cecily,” I managed, somehow.

She let out a heavy breath, although I couldn’t tell if it was out of relief or mortification. “You remembered me. That’s, uh, good, I suppose. I just...wanted...can we talk for a minute?”

I glanced from side to side.

Vanniv gave me a hugely exaggerated wink, and Sera followed it with a hand-sign that was either supportive or some kind of lewd gesture.

I looked back at Cecily. “Sure.”

“Okay, good.” She took another breath. “This is good. Can, uh, we havethe talk in private?”

I stood up, glancing to the others. “I’ll be right back.”

“Not a problem, Corin. We’ll be here.” Patrick grinned at me. “Good to see you, Cecily.”

She seemed to ease up just a little at Patrick’s comment. “Thanks, Patrick.

It’s nice to see you, too.”

Cecily reached out for my hand. I stared at it for a moment, then processed how crowded it was and the necessity of her gesture before accepting it.

Cecily led me through the crowd...and then outside the room entirely.

I followed, breathing heavily as we moved through the groups of people, and feeling a little less anxious once we managed to get outside of the ballroom. She seemed to have some idea of where she was leading me, at least.

The term “murder hallway” somehow jumped into my mind.

I was getting ambushed entirely too frequently. It was possible that it had done something bad to my nerves.

She didn’t take me far, fortunately. She took me through the halls and then back outside of the building through a side door, into a garden with a hedge maze.

There were fewer people here. Fortunately, none of them seemed to have glowing tattoos on their shoulders. I was very certain to check for that.

Instead, they mostly seemed to be young couples, determined to get lost in one of the corners of the hedge maze.

I realized, of course, that we appeared to be doing the same.

Was...that what this was?No, there was no way Cecily would be this forward about something like that.

She couldn’t have changed that much, not even after this many years.

By the time she pulled me into a dead-end in the maze, I was reasonably confident that being killed here would be preferable to being in the crowded party, so I just sort of resigned myself to that possibility and started to consider what other options could explain her behavior.

I wasn’t properly prepared for what she said next, though.

That seemed to be a theme in my life.

“So, uh, Corin.” She released my hand, turning to face me and leaning close. “Read any good books lately?”

I stared at her blankly for a moment, processing. “You couldn’t possibly mean...”

She frowned. “I suppose I wasn’t clear enough. I spent so long trying to figure out the right way to sound witty about that, too. Drat. I mean, have you had a chance to look at your messages from Tristan in the last few days?”

My jaw opened, then closed, without any words escaping.

That was more like Cecily, at least.

Somehow, she’d always managed to catch me off-guard. Cecily winced. “Was that too direct?”

I shook my head. “No, no. And that opening line was wonderful, I just... didn’t expect it. I didn’t expect, well, you.”

“I’m sorry! I can go if I’m bothering you, I just, um, there’s something important...”

I took a deep breath. “No, wait. My fault. I’m being terrible.” I raised my hands in a conciliatory gesture. “I don’t want you to leave, Cecily. You’re fine. I’m just processing.”

She nodded. “Okay. Right. Processing, I understand that.”

“So.” I clasped my hands together. “Before we continue, we’re at a crowded party, and I don’t know how you know about this at all, but we probably shouldn’t be talking here.”

“That’s why we’re in this secluded location!” She gestured all around us. “Also, it’s why I brought this.” She waggled her umbrella.

I glanced upward, paying closer attention.

There were just a few runes on the inside of it, cleverly concealed by the curvature of the cloth.

Silence and anti-scrying, I realized. “Oh.” I blinked. “That’s actually rather brilliant. It’s restricting noise from escaping.”

“B...brilliant?” Cecily took a sharp breath, then stepped back. Had I said something wrong?I just kept talking, though. Like I do when I’m excited. “I assume it’sintended to keep anyone who isn’t underneath the umbrella from hearing us?”

“It’s actually a few feet wider than that, and it only dulls the sound and makes it harder to hear, rather than silent. Silence is conspicuous, but just a murmur makes it sound like we’re mumbling to each other. Most people won’t notice a difference.”

I bobbed my head in approval and then pointed at another rune. “And that rune blocks scrying spells, I think. But I don’t recognize the third one.”

“Oh, this?” She pointed at the third rune. “It’s not in the current curriculum; I’m not surprised you haven’t seen it. I’m a little surprised you even recognized the anti-scrying rune, to be honest. This one is a mild observation-blocking rune. It makes us less interesting to anyone who is within range, but not within the range of this other rune,” she pointed at another rune I hadn’t seen, “which lets the people who are within just a few feet of the umbrella interact with each other normally.”

I clasped my hands together in realization. “You’re mimicking an effect similar to the Mesmer attunement.”

Her eyes widened slightly. “I’m surprised you’re familiar with that. It’s somewhat obscure.”

I chuckled. “Believe me, I’m more than familiar with it at this point. But that’s another story.” I leaned forward slightly. “And that broach — that’s an improved shield sigil, right?”

She nodded fervently. “Yes, isn’t that silver bird you’re wearing a variant on that as well?”

“Sure is.” I was wearing the silver phoenix sigil on the right breast of my tunic. It looked better there than on my pants, where I usually wore it. I tilted it upward so she could see it more easily.

She leaned closer. “May I	?”

“Oh, sure.” I unpinned it.

She unpinned her own broach. We traded.

I inspected the runes on her broach. “Four enhancement runes	One forthe shield itself, one for capacity, one for recharging. The fourth is connected to a series of knowledge runes	Interesting. Iterative hardening? Somethingthat reinforces the shield in locations where it’s recently been hit?”

Cecily let out a gleeful laugh. “You’re the first person who understood that just by looking at it. Professor Vellum told me no one would ever—”

I laughed. “Vellum says a lot of things.”

“She certainly does.” Cecily ran her finger over my own sigil. “Fascinating. Building regeneration into a shielding device for an all-purpose defensive item. I can see that. And then, this is, what? A defensive rune for the sigil itself, tied to some kind of storage rune? I’m afraid I’m not familiar with it.”

“The two runes together prevent anyone with different mana from my own from tampering with the enchantments. Just a precautionary measure. It’d probably never be necessary.”

Cecily shook her head. “No, I think it’s quite intelligent. I’m not much of a fighter, but I’ve been experimenting with ideas for making items that are designed to remotely interact with other items. An enchantment like that would make it much more difficult, if not impossible.”

That’s...very similar to what I was thinking about doing with my mana threads. But making items for it would probably be easier, if a little less flexible.

I’d stopped talking for a moment, just thinking while I turned her shield sigil over in my hands.

“...You think that’s a terrible idea, don’t you?” Cecily asked.

“Hm?” I shook my head, remembering what I’d been talking with her about. “Oh, no. It was just extremely similar to one of my own ideas. Also, you reminded me about a time I detonated someone’s shield sigil.”

“Detonated? Wouldn’t that be terribly dangerous?”

“That was kind of the point,” I admitted, chagrinned. “But that’s a long story. I suppose you may know bits of it, if you know about the book.”

“Oh! Right. The book. Tristan. Yes. I need to give you a message. Very important.”

I nodded at her. “What’s the message?”

“Uh, well, it’s to make sure you listen to the last thing he sent to you.”

I considered that. “I don’t think I’ve seen that message yet. I’ll take a look later.”

“You should really take a look soon. Like, maybe right now?” She sounded hopeful.

I glanced from side to side. There was no one else in this part of the maze.

Just Cecily Lambert and me.

How many times had we been alone like this when we’d been young, chatting and laughing about other books?I reached into the bag at my side, then hesitated. “First, let’s trade these back before we forget.” I handed her the broach.

“Oh, right. Of course.” She returned my sigil. “I didn’t mean... I hope I didn’t offend	”

“You’re fine, Cecily. But before I confirm if I have the book with me, I need to know how you know about it in the first place. How involved are you in all this?”

Cecily winced. “Not very?” She glanced from side to side, much like I had moments before. “I’m sorry. I don’t know much about all this. I just heard recently that your brother was alive. And I was so glad. I know how much he meant to Yunika	and, to you, of course.”

I nodded. “Did he approach you somehow? In the spire?” “Him? No. I haven’t seen Tristan. Have you?”

I shook my head. “No, not in person.”

“I think Yunika has.” Cecily shook her head. “Maybe. She won’t tell me much. She just told me that I needed to get you to read the book, and to heed his warning.”

“Warning?”

Cecily gave me a sad look. “Can we	just leave the party? Then you canread the book, and we can just catch up on all this. Come home with me?”

I shook my head. “I need to know more about what’s going on before I can make any decisions about that.”

“Then	” She glanced downward toward my bag.

It occurred to me that there was a possibility, however slight, that this was some sort of attempt by an outside party to determine if I really had the book.

Or, perhaps, even to steal it.

But with what Cecily had demonstrated she already knew? And Yunika	Cecily’s sister?She’d been Tristan’s fiancée, before he disappeared.

We’d talked as children about marrying the two sisters together. It was thesame story that Tristan had sent to me to verify who he was.

Had that been a hint that he’d been talking to Yunika?I made a decision on instinct. It was a careless one, far from my usual style.

I chose to trust someone.

I reached into my bag and flipped open the lid of the Jaden Box. “Retrieve: Trials of Judgment.”

The book appeared.

Cecily stared. “W...wow. What is that? I’ve seen storage items, but something that can recall something specific? Is it linked to some kind of—”

“That’s a discussion for another time, Cecily. Sorry. Let me take a look at this.”

Cecily nodded. “Can I see?” I paused, then shrugged.

You know what? If I’m in halfway, might as well go the rest. “Yeah, come closer.”

She took a couple steps closer, then turned so she could read with me.

I flipped the book open, all the way to the last thing I’d sent to Tristan, then past it.

I found a new reply.

Corin,Do not, under any circumstances, attend the winter ball.

If for some reason you find yourself at the ball, leave as soon as possible without making a scene.

Certain matters have gotten beyond my control. I would advise you to head to Dalenos as quickly as possible. There’s someone you need to talk to there.

By now, I suspect you know who I mean.

I’ll say this one last time: Do not attend the winter ball. You will be in extreme danger if you are present.

Do not attempt to warn others.

You cannot stop what is coming. Neither could I.

I am sorry.

-Tristan CadenceI glanced at Cecily.

She looked up from the page, frowning. “...Well, that’s foreboding.” I nodded slowly. “No one told you what it was going to say?”

“No. Yunika just told me to find you and give you that message. She...” Cecily frowned. “...implied that I should leave right afterward.”

I closed the book and set it inside the box. “Store: Trials of Judgment.” The book vanished.

“That’s amazing! Can I see...”

I shook my head. “Not right this minute. Maybe later.”

Cecily frowned. “I suppose you’re right. After reading that? We really should be leaving.”

I raised a hand to my chin. “He was tremendously vague about what was going on. Do you have any idea about why he would be so concerned?”

“No. Yunika was clear that they had enemies, though. She said someone very dangerous was looking for Tristan, but she wouldn’t tell me why.”

“I might be able to share something about that later.”

A loud voice interrupted us, sounding like it was coming from everywhere at once. “All guests, please proceed to the main ballroom. The chancellor’s speech is about to begin.”

I glanced at Cecily. “If there’s going to be something happening, that sounds like it could be a good time.”

She reached out and grabbed my hand. “We should leave, Corin. Your brother’s note was abundantly clear. It’s not safe to stay.”

I nodded. “You’re right. But it wasn’t clear on if it was just dangerous for me, or if it’s something that could hurt everyone else.”

“Corin. ‘You cannot stop what’s coming’,” Cecily quoted from the book. I shrugged a shoulder. “He’s been wrong before.” I started to head backtoward the main ballroom, still holding Cecily’s hand.

She followed. “This is a mistake, Corin. We should be leaving.”

“At least let me warn Sera and Patrick. They can leave with us. We don’t have any indication of what this threat is. If it’s an individual that may be looking to attack me, I’m already here, and having numbers with us may help.”

Cecily stopped walking, pulling her hand free from mine. “You’re going to be stubborn about this, aren’t you?”

I turned my head toward her. “Yep.” She didn’t look like she was reaching for a weapon or anything, at least.

She just looked sad.

Cecily shook her head. “Fine. I’m going with you to warn the others. But we are leaving after that, even if it’s as a group.”

A second announcement went out, mirroring the first. The speech would be happening in a few moments.

That gave me just a precious few moments to consider. “Okay. We’ll get our friends, then leave. Deal.”

Cecily’s expression hardened to one of resolve. “Good.”

She took my hand again, and together, we made our way back to the ballroom.

I felt like someone was watching us as we walked back in, but as soon as my mind noted it, the thought seemed to fade away.

It wasn’t important.

We headed toward the table with Sera and the others.

The chancellor was standing in the center of the room, a handful of officials and a few professors standing with her.

Behind us, guards closed the doors to the room. Cecily’s hand tightened around mine.

We continued to the table, sitting down just as the chancellor began her speech.

“Today, I am proud to greet the graduating class of four-twelve!” Students cheered, while the faculty clapped politely.

“I’d also like to congratulate all of our students who just finished their first year. When we first began this year, I told you...” the chancellor began.

I ignored her, leaning toward Sera to whisper. “We need to leave as soon as this speech is over.”

Sera blinked at me. “What, why?”

“Message indicated that we are in significant danger.” “Like, right now? What sort of danger?”

“Don’t know, but it sounded bad. Like, we can’t deal with it bad. We need to get the others and go.”

Someone at a table nearby told us to be quiet. We ignored them. “Okay, sure. I’ll tell Marissa.” She leaned over to whisper to Marissa. “...You should all be proud to have conquered your first year, but thegreater challenges await...” the chancellor continued.

I was next to Patrick, so I relayed the message to him.

“What? Really? It was just getting good! And I haven’t, uh, had a chance to dance with anyone yet...”

“Patrick.” I narrowed my eyes, trying to look as serious as possible. “We.

Are. Leaving.”

He nodded. “Got it. At least you finally got to see Cecily, eh?”

I didn’t have a response to that, so I just quieted to listen to the end of the speech.

“For everyone here that supported our graduating class — parents, professors, and our sponsors — I’d like to give you our sincerest thanks. You’ve helped ensure that our graduates will be the shield that protects this country for generations to come.”

“It’s funny that you talk about protecting your country,” came a voice from the student section. “When you stand with the very people who sold it out.”

The voice was loud enough that I could hear it clearly, likely amplified by magic like the chancellor’s own speech.

I didn’t see the speaker until she stepped out from the tables and onto the floor in the center of the room, facing the chancellor.

The woman with long purple hair.

I had a very bad feeling about where this was going.

“Change of plans. Leaving immediately. Everyone grab onto me.” I said it just loud enough that the people at my table to could hear.

And apparently the table behind us, because they complained about the noise again.

I stuck my hand toward the center of the table.

Cecily grabbed my hand immediately. The others leaned forward a moment later, including Vanniv.

The chancellor turned toward the woman. “Who are you, and what are you talking about, young lady?”

“Young.” The purple-haired woman laughed. “That’s a faulty assumption, but nowhere near as large of a mistake as the ones that led you to this day.

You should ask the councilors next to you about the deal that they just made.”

An older woman — the owner of the estate, Archduchess Lanoy, I realized— stepped forward next to Chancellor Wallace. “You will be silent, young lady. How dare you speak to us this way? The chancellor was in the middle of a—”

The purple-haired woman waved a hand.

Archduchess Lanoy collapsed unceremoniously to the floor.

At the distance, I couldn’t see what had happened. I just heard the screams. I didn’t wait a moment longer. “Return.”

The circlet on my head flashed. Nothing else happened.

“Anti-teleport runes,” Cecily said, releasing her grip. “They’re all over the walls.”

Resh, I saw those earlier.

And so did the purple-haired woman.

“What have you done?” A man’s voice demanded.

I couldn’t see him over the crowd of people that were starting to stand up.

My friends let go of me, turning to move. Sera began to mutter the words of a spell.

There was a crash, followed by a burst of light, then more screaming. “Now,” came the purple-haired woman’s voice again, “You will all sit stilland be silent.”

I felt the weight of her words slam down on my mind like a hammer. I shuddered. Grips on my arm tightened.

All around me, hundreds of panicked students were sitting down. Once everyone was seated, it was easier to see what had happened. The purple-haired woman was standing in the center of the room. She was the only one still standing in that area.

Most of the others, including Chancellor Wallace, were lying flat on the ground. I couldn’t see clearly, but they looked to be covered with burns.

Councilor Lanoy was sitting, rather than lying on the floor, and he was visibly trembling with effort. I remembered that he had been powerful — he was one of the people who had confronted Keras, along with my mother.

But, as much as he was clearly struggling, he failed to force himself to stand.

There were a handful of others who were still seated on the central stage, rather than lying prone.

With a moment of shock, I realized that one of them was Lord Teft. I need to move.

I started to convert my mana into mental mana, cycling it to try to rid my body of the spell’s effect. But this was powerful mind magic. It was probably a hair weaker than what Saffron had hit me with, but it wasn’t just working on one person — it had hit everyone in the room. Thousands of people.

And even slightly weaker than Saffron’s magic was still far stronger than anything I could manage.

I’d stored the Ring of Derek Controlling in the Jaden Box. If I could have reached it, I might have been able to use it to free myself. Unfortunately, the purple-haired woman’s command was stricter than what Saffron had used, and it prevented me from moving at all. I couldn’t reach for the box or speak to retrieve items.

The purple-haired woman walked over to the podium where Chancellor Wallace had once stood, kicked Chancellor Wallace’s body off the stage, and leaned forward.

“That’s better.” She grinned brightly.

It was hard to tell from a distance, but it looked almost like she had fangs.

“I’d like to welcome the final graduating class of Lorian Heights University.” She clapped her hands together. “Isn’t that exciting? To be one of the very last?” She sighed dramatically. “I suppose it would be more exciting if you had a few minutes left to celebrate. But alas, that’s not to be.”

One of the people on the stage — an older man in a military uniform — managed to struggle to his feet. “You will cease this at once.”

The purple-haired woman turned. “My, that was quick. You’re a strong one, for a human. Be a wise man as well and sit down, will you?”

The older man took a step forward. “You will not intimidate me, young lady. I’ve faced worse—”

“I sincerely doubt that.” The woman waved a hand again. The older man dropped to his knees, clutching his throat.

The purple-haired woman turned back to the podium. “Now, where was I? Ah, yes. I’d like you all to understand that this is not your fault. Referring to the students, that is. This is their fault.” She pointed a hand backward, toward the people struggling on the stage. “For compromising everything this nation once stood for.”

I glanced toward the guest section. There were a handful of people who looked like they were beginning to break free from the spell and whisper to one another, but they weren’t standing. They probably didn’t want to draw this woman’s attention.

“You see,” the woman continued, “I don’t get out much. Out of the spire, that is. And when I do? It’s usually because someone did something terribly wrong. A few noblemen who need to be taught a lesson in Edria. A handful of conspirators working to research forbidden magic. The nation of Lavia, preparing to invade a spire. That sort of thing.”

She smiled again. “You see, when I’m sent out here, it means that someone has made a mistake of such a magnitude that no one is going to forget it for generations. And in this case, that mistake was selling Valia out to the Tyrant in Gold.”

I heard a few gasps from the crowd. Apparently, the inability to speak hadn’t sealed off our ability to vocalize entirely.

Maybe I would have tried to use that if I wasn’t too terrified.

Move, damn you.

Her command was even worse than what Saffron had used. “Sit still” prevented me from moving at all, otherwise I would have tried to move my hand to my forehead to transfer my mana.

“Now, not everyone here can be equally blamed, of course.” The woman continued. “When Tenjin disappeared, your council was quick to seek another benefactor. Perhaps it was obvious that they would turn toward the most powerful option they could think of.”

The purple-haired woman sighed. “Frankly, I’m very disappointed with all of you.” She turned around, pointed a hand at the people on the stage.

Councilor Lanoy managed to struggle to his feet. “It is...not what...you say...”

“Oh? Did you have something to say in your defense, Councilor? I’d love to hear it.”

“Goddess...abandoned us...long...ago...” “Oh? What makes you say that?”

Lanoy seemed genuinely confused. “Selys has not appeared in centuries.”

The purple-haired woman sighed, shaking her head. “Are the gifts that she has given to you insufficient? Spires filled with magic, and her own children to watch over you?” There was a hint of spite as she added, “Not all of us are so fortunate as to be the favorite children.”

“You call us fortunate?” Lanoy’s voice was clearer now. “You were born with greater power than any human can possibly achieve, Mizuchi.”

I shivered as I heard the name.

No, no no...

“Power, yes. I certainly have that.” Mizuchi laughed. “But you were the ones given freedom. And you’ve squandered it. Turned away from your benefactor at your first opportunity.”

Lanoy tilted his head downward. “You can have your freedom as well, Mizuchi. Let us discuss—”

“There will be no further discussion.” Mizuchi waved a hand downward and a blast of kinetic energy followed her movement, smashing Lanoy into the ground.

As Lanoy struggled to push himself back to his feet, an aura of lightning began to crackle around Mizuchi.

She took a step closer to the councilor. “Your words are empty. Your excuses are insufficient. You are guilty of heresy and treason. I will be your executioner.”

Lanoy traced a hand through the air. A dozen spheres of mana appeared around him, rotating in a circular pattern.

Mizuchi tilted her head to the side. “Really? You’re going to try to fight me?”

“You’re not invincible.” Lanoy snapped his fingers.

The spheres of mana each fired a series of blasts of white light, enveloping Mizuchi entirely.

When my vision cleared, Mizuchi stood in the same spot, completely unscathed. “Invincible? Not technically, I suppose. But I am close enough that there’s no practical difference.”

Lanoy unleashed another series of blasts with similar results, but that seemed to draw Mizuchi’s attention.

That allowed three people in the guest section to stand up and launch attacks of their own from a different angle.

A teacher called on a rain of ice from the above, sending shards of jagged frost in Mizuchi’s direction.

A Guardian jumped forward, blade drawn.

A woman stood and raised a longbow, firing an arrow that glowed with white light.

Mizuchi snatched the arrow out of the air, ignored the shards of ice, and spun as the swordsman arrived.

When her fist impacted his chest, the room shook like thunder.

The Guardian’s entire chest caved on the impact, and his limp body flew a dozen feet before landing at the foot of a table.

Someone managed to scream.

The aura of lightning around Mizuchi continued to grow.

“How are you outside of your spire?” Lanoy demanded. “Who sent you?Tenjin is gone. Is Katashi so vengeful that he—”

Mizuchi took another step toward the councilor. “You needn’t know the details. You wouldn’t live long enough to act on anything you learned.”

I had a few ideas, but none of that really mattered at the moment. My focus was on getting enough of my will back to speak.

If I could speak, I could activate my necklace and send messages to Derek and Keras.

Elora was already here somewhere, but I knew she wasn’t at her best. She was still recovering from her mana scars.

Maybe, just maybe, the three of them would stand a chance. I couldn’t imagine anyone else who did.

Lanoy hurled another attack, a more concentrated beam of light. Mizuchi side-stepped that one. Perhaps it might have been powerful enough to harm her if it had connected, but she seemed to avoid it without effort.

The councilor growled, sounding angrier as Mizuchi drew closer. “You cannot be here without the authority of—”

“Enough.” Mizuchi raised a hand. “I might allow a few survivors to spread the word about what happened here. But you won’t be one of them, Councilor.”

Mizuchi vanished, moving too fast for me to perceive. When she reappeared, her arm was sticking through the center of Councilor Lanoy’s chest.

He slumped forward, unmoving.

Mizuchi extracted her bloodstained arm, shaking her head. I thought I saw a hint of emotion cross her face. Disappointment, perhaps. “Traitor. That death was cleaner than you deserved.”

Mizuchi stared down at the body for just another moment, then raised her head and concentrated. The lightning around her lashed out, then forked toward the remaining people on the stage.

I managed a moment of worry for Lord Teft, still struggling to stand. The lightning never struck.

It arced upward.

We’d all been focusing too hard on the few people who could stand.

No one noticed the one person who was floating above the entire area, now holding a ball of swirling lightning in her hand.

“Hello, Mizuchi.”

Professor Meltlake landed on the opposite side of the stage, tossing the ball of lightning into the air. It dispersed a moment later.

Mizuchi tilted her head downward. “At last.” She grinned, displaying teeth. “A hero arrives.” She clapped her hands together, a shockwave blasting outward in all directions. The few others on the stage who had managed to stand flew backward, smashing against the ground.

Professor Meltlake just floated back a few inches when the shockwave reached her, otherwise unaffected. She turned her longer, more traditional dueling cane toward Mizuchi. “Let the children leave. I’ll give you the entertainment you want.”

“Oh, no. And deprive you of your motivation? Why would I do such a thing?” Mizuchi turned toward us.

The students.

“In fact, if you’re so concerned—”

Meltlake didn’t say a word. Her cane just flashed and an inferno roared outward, overtaking Mizuchi in an instant. The intensity of the fire was so great that I could feel the heat, even hundreds of feet away.

The flames continued to swirl and smolder for several moments, before vanishing utterly.

Mizuchi turned back toward Meltlake. Her dress had been burned away, revealing purple scales in the place of skin. Only her face and neck looked human.

And those looked like they’d been barely singed. “Hm. You’re not bad, but—”

Another blast of flame leapt out of Meltlake’s cane. She waved her off- hand a moment later, and something within the fire detonated.

The room trembled, the glass roof above us shattering.

A sphere of white enveloped the spot where Mizuchi had stood, then faded. Mizuchi remained, of course. I could have expected no other result.

But this time?Her skin and scales both looked just slightly cracked.

Mizuchi snarled and moved her hands together, forming a ball of lightning and hurling it back toward Meltlake.

Meltlake gestured upward. “Wall of Stone.”

The floor of the room cracked as a rectangular section of stone rose, blocking the lightning blast.

Mizuchi charged and slammed a fist into it, shattering the wall into pieces.

Meltlake backed off a step, then flew upward and yelled. “Evacuate as soon as you can move!”

I could see a handful of people in the guest section were doing just that. I didn’t recognize them, but they were rushing for the door.

A couple students had managed to do the same. But only a couple, out ofthousands of us.

Mizuchi gestured, and a blast of lightning came from above, like a true bolt from the skies. It slammed into Meltlake, and she tumbled downward, hitting the floor.

Smoke rose from Meltlake as she stood.

Mizuchi rushed forward, aiming a claw for Meltlake’s chest. And then that smoke gave way to fire.

Mizuchi’s claw hit the aura of fire and burned. She hissed, pulling the claw back before it impacted.

Meltlake raised her rod and pointed at the center of Mizuchi’s chest. A thin line of white fire of blinding intensity blasted out from it.

Mizuchi blurred and appeared several feet away. “That might have actually hurt me. You’ve become quite the nuisance.”

Professor Meltlake coughed. Blood was streaming out of her nose. She raised her rod again, but Mizuchi was faster.

Mizuchi shoved both hands down, ducking under Meltlake’s next blast, and touched the tiles.

A section of floor beneath them instantly changed from stone into deep water.

Meltlake fell as the floor shifted, before she could react. Her aura of flame extinguished.

Mizuchi, however, stood on the water as if it was solid stone.

She tapped a finger against the water, and it froze solid, entombing Meltlake inside.

I need to move.

I pushed my mind harder, to move faster, but nothing was working. I couldn’t shake myself free.

“Now, then.” Mizuchi turned toward the guest section. “Who would like to be next?”

Meltlake burst out of the ice right behind Mizuchi, her body once again ablaze. “Haven’t you heard how I got my name?”

The water that she’d emerged from was burning.

Meltlake put a hand on Mizuchi’s shoulder, then Mizuchi burst into flames.

Mizuchi roared, her scales cracking further at the intensity of the fire, then swung around and drove a fist into Meltlake’s chest.

I heard a gasp of air from Patrick as his mentor flew backward, smashed into a stone pillar, then landed hard on the floor, unmoving.

Mizuchi shook herself, as if wet, and the flames on her skin and scales vanished. I could see tiny rivulets of blood running between the cracks. She’d been burned badly.

Not invincible, then. But even Meltlake couldn’t put her down.

I needed to do something. I spoke.

“Necklace...Message Keras. Help...”

The necklace flashed for an instant, then died.

This room had been protected against communication magic, too. I had no way to call for help.

“How wonderful.” Mizuchi dusted herself off. “That was unexpected.

Anyone else?”

A blade constructed from raw mana slammed into the side of her face. She didn’t even react.

Lord Teft slashed at her neck next, but it failed to break through her skin. “Nothing but an irritant.” She plunged a hand straight through his chest. My eyes went wide for just a moment.

Then the body detonated.

The explosion of mana sent Mizuchi staggering back, right into the swingof a second Lord Teft.

Simulacra, I realized with a hint of relief.

Mizuchi growled, swinging a fist as she turned, but the other Teft ducked the strike and jabbed her in the ribs. It was just as ineffective as before.

They can’t hurt her, though. He’s just buying time. His weapons are just mana constructs — they must have taken his real dueling cane at the door.

I need to do something.

I focused my mana, trying to push the power from my right hand all the way through my body and into my Enchanter attunement, but it worked too slowly to be effective.

My friends were clearly struggling, too, but none of them had managed to stand or speak. We couldn’t move in the slightest.

With one exception.

Marissa’s hand was trembling.

She was the strongest of us. Almost strong enough to fight off the effect.

If she can get free...

It was a fraction of hope, not nearly enough. But I had to try. “Mara,” I managed a feeble whisper. “Take...my...hand.”

Mara’s eyes turned toward me. Then I heard her grunt with effort, as she began to make the monumental effort of moving her hand toward mine.

We were lucky — we had already been in contact when I’d tried to teleport us out of the area with my circlet.

Her hand wasn’t far.

But every inch felt like miles.

I struggled with every fraction of my own strength to move my own hand toward hers.

On the stage, Mizuchi finished battering another Lord Teft, which exploded on her like the last.

Another glowing arrow struck her from behind, but it simply shattered against her scales without effect.

One of the house guards charged from one of the sides of the room, jumping through the air and swinging a gleaming blade.

Mizuchi pointed a finger, and a tiny beam of light pierced through the guard’s chest.

The guard landed, took a single ineffective swing with the glowing blade, and then collapsed.

“I’m so glad you’ve all decided to provide me with a hint of entertainment, at least.” She spun, catching Lord Teft’s conjured weapon. “But alas, all good things come to an end.”

She yanked the phantasmal dueling cane out of his hands, and plunged it into the very much real Lord Teft’s chest.

He fell backward, clutching at the bleeding wound.

Move!My hand slid an inch.

Marissa’s hand moved two inches more. Our fingers brushed against each other.

Mizuchi turned toward the fallen group on her stage. “I suppose I should clean up this mess.”

She waved a hand. A wave of fire blasted outward, engulfing the still- struggling bodies on the stage.

Teft managed to roll off the platform and avoid the fire, landing hard on his back.

The others were not so lucky. I heard screams.

I really hoped that Elora wasn’t one of the people on that stage. We weren’t exactly friends, but I still needed her help.

Move!Our hands slid further, but not quite enough. My strength was waning. My mind was burning.

Cecily leaned over and toppled into me. Her weight pushed me further. My hand landed on Marissa’s.

I activated my Arbiter attunement, shoving every bit of mana I had into Marissa.

Her aura flared, then changed.

It was burning orange as she stood.

“Mara, box,” I managed to whisper.

But I was too late — Marissa was already moving.

Mizuchi hopped off the stage, turning her head downward toward Lord Teft. “You fought well, all things considered. You have my respect.”

She raised a hand, which shifted in form into a blue-scaled claw. Then she swung it down at Teft’s neck.

“Star descends from sky!”

Marissa slammed a glowing fist into Mizuchi’s face. Mizuchi stumbled back just a step, staggered by the strike.

And, at the point of impact, the cracks that Meltlake had made began to spread.

“Interesting.” Mizuchi cracked the knuckles on her claw. “A student? I didn’t expect any of you to be able to struggle.”

“Lot of folks underestimate me.” Marissa shifted into a fighting stance. “Lot of folks lose.”

“Oh, how delightful. This one thinks she’s a fighter.” Mizuchi lunged with a claw, so fast I could barely see it.

Marissa just shifted her head slightly to the side, then brought a knee up toward Mizuchi’s gut.

Mizuchi responded quickly, blocking with her own leg, and then stepped back. She tilted her head to the side, examining.

Marissa didn’t give her a chance for much analysis. She swept a hand out in a chop. When Mizuchi didn’t bother to block, Marissa reshaped her shroud into a blade just before it impacted against Mizuchi’s shoulder.

A thin line of red appeared across Mizuchi’s scales.

Mizuchi turned her head downward, inspecting the damage. Marissa hadhit her on the right shoulder.

“Impressive.” Mizuchi turned her eyes back up to meet Marissa’s. “I think I’ll kill you next.”

She swept out with a claw again, but Marissa side-stepped the strike and responded with a jab of her own.

Mizuchi caught Marissa’s hand. And squeezed.

Marissa screamed, smashing Mizuchi with her other fist. Mizuchi barely seemed to feel the impact, but she let go.

Marissa’s right hand was a bloody mess. She cradled it against her chest, breathing heavily.

“That was a truly exceptional effort, and you should be commended for it.” I tried to move again, but I had no strength left. I’d given everything toMarissa.

I had to keep trying anyway. My eyes searched from side to side, searching for something, anything I could use.

Another glowing arrow of light flashed from the guest section. Mizuchi turned, caught it, and hurled it straight back at the archer. The archer ducked out of the way, drawing another arrow.

Marissa punched Mizuchi in the spine with her good hand. Mizuchi hissed, spun, and swung a kick at Marissa.

Marissa hopped backward, ducked, and then swung her good hand upward in an arc, launching a shockwave of cutting force.

It hit Mizuchi with no effect.

My eyes settled on something — the mana regeneration bracer on Patrick’s arm.

It had a store of my mana inside. If I could get to it...

I couldn’t move, but I could still feel the auras of my objects against my body.

The mana regeneration bracer was an obvious candidate, but everythingI’d enchanted myself had a bit of my own mana in it.

I wasn’t wearing much. Most of my items were in the Jaden Box. I’d been afraid that anything unusual would be taken at the door.

But I did have my phoenix sigil and my mana watch.

It only took the slightest sliver of my mana to connect with their capacity runes.

And then, rather than pushing mana into them, I began to pull.

Marissa dodged another one of Mizuchi’s swings, but she stumbled and fell backward.

Mizuchi took advantage of the opening immediately, launching a kick at Marissa’s chest.

Marissa raised an arm to block, but the kick impacted with such force that it carried her off the ground, throwing her backward a dozen feet. She hit the ground and tumbled into an expert roll.

She managed to make it back to her feet before Mizuchi hit her again, this time in the right shoulder.

Marissa screamed, then jammed her fingers toward Mizuchi’s eyes. Mizuchi just moved her head to the side, then kicked again.

Marissa hopped back, slower this time, and began to circle back around to where she’d first attacked.

I didn’t know why she was going that way, but I couldn’t think about it. I poured my effort into draining the mana out of my items.

I drained the mana watch completely. As much as my mind was screaming that I needed it, I knew rationally that it was less important in the middle of a fight.

And for once, my self-control was stronger than my fear.

I drained the shield sigil about halfway. I needed the mana, but I wasn’t going to leave myself completely defenseless.

With a little bit of my mana restored, I concentrated, forming a longer thread of mana out of my right hand.

Then, with a hint of transference mana, I pushed the string toward Patrick’s bracer.

I missed. I pushed again.

Marissa dodged another swing, hopping onto the stage. Mizuchi hurled a blast of lightning.

Marissa focused her shroud and slashed it in half, just like Keras would have.

But she wasn’t at Keras’ level of skill. Not yet.

The blast was weakened, but it still hit her, sending her into a series of convulsions as she fell to her knees.

Mizuchi hopped onto the stage casually. “Are we done now?” She threw a swing at Marissa’s head.

Marissa ducked the swing, then rolled off the stage. Mizuchi hissed. “You’re beginning to irritate me, girl.”

“Good, that means I’m startin’ to warm up.” Marissa hopped to the side as Mizuchi lunged at her.

Mizuchi landed near Teft.

More specifically, she landed inside what looked like a bear trap composed of raw mana.

The trap snapped shut around Mizuchi’s leg. She screamed.

Teft, still on the ground, waved a hand. Chains of mana appeared around Mizuchi.

Then columns of mana shot upward all around her, each as thick as a fist. Like the bars of a prison cell.

Mizuchi snarled, straining at the chains. They cracked, but didn’t break. “Now,” Teft yelled, his voice somehow strong in spite of his injury.

The archer fired another arrow.

Mizuchi twisted, snapped the chains, and caught the arrow in a clawed hand.

But that was just another distraction.

Elora Theas appeared right behind Mizuchi, a swirling ball of air mana in her hands.

Professor Meltlake pushed herself to her feet, wiping blood from her forehead, and pointing her cane.

They attacked Mizuchi from opposite sides. Elora hurled the sphere of mana, and Meltlake conjured a tremendous torrent of flame.

When the attacks impacted, they mixed. And wind, when mixed with flame, combusted.

The resulting explosion rocked the chamber, unattended tables and chairs aside. I had to brace my feet to keep from falling over. My ears rang.

A large section of the floor around where Mizuchi had stood was simply missing. Nearby the tapestries nearest the center of the room caught fire, spreading smoke.

Elora stumbled back, falling onto the stage.

Meltlake collapsed, blood streaming freely from her nose. When the smoke cleared, Mizuchi was almost unrecognizable. Not because she was wounded.

Rather, because she had abandoned the frailties of the human form that she had chosen to mimic.

Vast wings had wrapped around her, shielding her body from the flames. The skin on her face had warped and fallen away, leaving only scales.

Four horns protruded from the top of her head, and her spine gave way to a long tail that ended in spines.

She was not in her true form; not a serpent. But she was closer.

And those few things we might have called injuries were entirely gone.

“It has been many years,” her voice was stronger now, the pulse of mana in her tone, “since I have been forced to wear this form.”

Her hands, both clawed now, grabbed onto the bars and pushed. The bars began to buckle almost immediately. “You have done well. Each of you should be proud to have survived this long.”

I still felt the compulsion to remain still and silent, but it felt weaker. The spell must have lost some of its potency when Mizuchi shifted forms.

Moreover, the mana I was taking out of the items was already pure. Mizuchi’s spell had only affected people, not the mana stored in items.

If I can just get a little more...

Mizuchi smashed a clawed hand through the few conjured bars of mana that were still surrounding her. Most had been obliterated by the combined attack.

Elora took one look at Mizuchi and snapped her fingers, vanishing. I didn’t blame her in the slightest.

Elora must have broken the anti-teleportation runes, I realized. That’s why she took so long to attack.

I hope she gets us some help.

“Necklace. Message Keras. Help.”

The necklace flashed again, but faded immediately. Elora must not have broken the anti-communication runes.

Maybe she hadn’t even broken the anti-teleport ones, so much as weakened them or made an exception for herself.

What else could I do? I could whisper, but that wasn’t much on its own.

I tried to move my other hand toward my pouch. If I could reach the Jaden Box, maybe...

Mizuchi growled at the spot where Elora had been a moment before. “Irritating. I suppose she will have to be dealt with at a later time.”

Mizuchi turned her head to Meltlake next, but the professor was unmoving on the floor.

Next, she turned back toward Marissa.

Marissa had taken the time to get some distance, at least. She’d run almost back to where the rest of the students were. She was only a few feet from the closest student tables.

That distance didn’t last more than a moment.

Mizuchi moved faster now, appearing in front of Marissa.

“I think you could have been a hero, if you’d lived long enough.” Mizuchi’s tail slammed into Marissa, spines piercing into her arm.

Marissa fell to a knee. “No!” I heard Patrick yell. He was standing now.

I turned my head to him. “Patrick. Box.”

I was insistent enough that I managed to get his attention.

Patrick reached into my bag and pulled the box out. “Good idea, Corin. I’ll take things from here. Retrieve: Dawnbringer Replica.”

His sword appeared. “Patrick, wait—”

He stuck the box in my hand, then he began to run.

Mizuchi smashed Marissa in the jaw, sending her tumbling back and ripping the spines free from her arm.

This time, Mara didn’t get back up.

I looked hopefully toward Teft, the last person that I knew might be able to intervene.

His eyes were closed. He’d been close to the epicenter of the explosion, and he was badly burned. I couldn’t tell if he was just unconscious or dead.

Resh. What can I do?“You lasted a long time, for a child. I’ll give you the honor of a good send- off.”

Mizuchi took a deep breath. Marissa didn’t move.

Mizuchi exhaled, a wave of lightning exploding out of her mouth. The same lightning breath that had nearly annihilated us when we’d been hundreds of feet away just ten weeks before.

My eyes widened as Patrick charged into the path of the attack. And swung a sword that gleamed like a mirror.

Mizuchi’s draconic breath struck the blade — and rebounded back at her.

The blast flashed across the room in an instant, slamming straight into Mizuchi and sending her crashing into the opposite wall. The stone splintered on impact.

When Mizuchi extracted herself from the wreckage, she bled. “Where...” Mizuchi snarled, “Did you get Dawnbringer?”

“She’s not Dawnbringer,” Patrick replied, raising the gleaming blade. “I call her Bright Reflection.”

Mizuchi howled. The room trembled, stone shaking and cracking apart.

But I didn’t tremble. I was done trembling. I stood.

“Retrieve: Selys-Lyann. Retrieve: Ring of Jumping. Retrieve: Ceris.”

Sera was rising, too, and I could see more other students around us breaking free. That reflected blast must have hit Mizuchi hard enough to loosen her control on everyone.

I passed Sera the crystalline sword.

I slipped the ring of jumping on and raised the Selys-Lyann.

I paused for one moment, considering. “Retrieve: Keras’ Blood.” A vial of blood appeared. “Summon Keras Selyrian.”

Nothing happened.

Resh. The box hasn’t had enough time to recover yet.

I shook my head. “Store: Keras’ Blood.” Then I took a step toward the fight.

“Don’t go,” Cecily managed. She was still sitting. Shaking. “You promised we’d leave together.”

“We will. But for the moment, I have work to do.” I turned my head toward Sera. “Think you can manage your bigger summon?”

“Not a chance. I can barely summon Vanniv.”

Vanniv himself was still struggling to get free of the spell, but showing no sign of success. He didn’t have enough mana to work with, and he couldn’t purify it like I could.

I nodded. “Then I guess we’re doing this the hard way.” Mizuchi extracted herself from the rubble.

Many other students were free now, not just the handful of us. Most of them were fleeing the room.

Sera and I resisted that tide, pushing forward to stand next to Patrick. The three of us stood together in front of Marissa’s fallen form.

We would not let Mizuchi get closer to her. Not. One. Inch.

Mizuchi walked toward us, almost casually, her tail twitching behind her.

She glanced at each of us, then back toward Patrick. “Is there someone just giving out legendary magical swords to children? Because I’m fairly certain I recognize all three of those.”

Patrick tilted his head downward. “Turn back, monster. You will find no further prey here.”

“Ooh, you’re a brave one. Almost as brave as your friend was. But you saw what happened to her, didn’t you? Broken, beaten, battered?”

“Alive,” Patrick managed. “That’s a better result than you seem to be aiming for.”

Mizuchi gave a smile that was very definitely fangs now. “I like your spirit. I’ll enjoy breaking it.”

She vanished.

I was ready for that this time.

Haste.

I was swinging at the spot just in front of Patrick in an instant. I didn’t need to be able to see how fast she was moving if I could predict her behavior.

Selys-Lyann cracked against the scales on the side of Mizuchi’s arm. She whirled toward me as the ice began to spread.

Sera jabbed at her from the other side, leaving a gouge in Mizuchi’s scales.

Mizuchi turned around toward Sera, but Sera stepped back and raised her off-hand to point. “Bind.”

A swirling ring of symbols appeared in the air around Mizuchi, then contracted until they touched her scales and disappeared.

Mizuchi tilted her head downward. “Really? You’re going to do that right now?” She shook her head. “You think you can turn my own powers against me? Let’s see you try.”

I swung at Mizuchi again while she was speaking, but she just stepped to the side. Patrick threw a blast of lightning, but it bounced off Mizuchi’s scales without effect.

Mizuchi pointed at Sera, producing a blast of flame. Sera waved upward, raising a wall of ice.

The fire blasted straight through it, hitting Sera. I saw her barrier shatter oncontact, and she flew backward and hit the floor. Mizuchi turned, shaking her head. “Amateur.”

Sera shuddered on the floor, smoke rising from her torso. Patrick screamed and lunged.

Mizuchi caught his sword in a single hand. “You’re right,” she said. “It’s not the real thing.”

Then she snapped it in half, flipped the broken blade around, and plunged it into Patrick’s chest.

He stumbled back a single step, gasped, and then swung again with his broken blade.

Mizuchi just stepped to the side.

Patrick fell forward and joined Sera on the ground. I jabbed toward Mizuchi’s throat.

She batted the sword out of the way with ease, then swung her tail at me.

Jump.

I blasted myself backward, avoiding the swing.

“Ooh, interesting. You’ve got a bit of spark. But now this one,” she pointed toward Marissa, still on the floor. “Has no one guarding her.”

A sphere of flame manifested in her hand, glowing brighter and brighter. Then the fireball moved, but not toward Marissa.

Sera was still on the ground, but she’d crawled closer to Mizuchi and lifted her sword.

The ball of flame moved into Ceris’ blade, causing the sword to grow red.

Then Sera swung it right into the back of Mizuchi’s leg.

The sword bit in deep, and flames burst out of the wound. Mizuchi screamed.

She kicked backward, hitting Sera in the shoulder hard enough that I saw Sera’s shoulder pop out of place.

Sera hit the ground and screamed herself, the sword slipping from her grasp.

I aimed the tip of my sword toward Mizuchi’s eye.

Jump.

Mizuchi caught the blade. Her hand began to freeze.

“Irritating.” She pulled her hand back, shattering the ice, and then swung her other claw at me.

I couldn’t dodge effectively without releasing my sword.

Instead, I side-stepped to diminish the impact, and focused on the mana thread that was still connected to my shield sigil.

I felt the shield’s power — and I moved it, all into one spot. Right at the point of impact.

Her claw hit the barrier and rebounded off the focused shield.

My shield shattered. It had blocked her blow — barely — but that one strike had taken up the entire barrier.

I responded while she was surprised, channeling transference mana into my off-hand and punching her in the chest.

It was like punching a solid stone wall. She didn’t even budge.

She released her grip on my sword, shaking her head, then swung her other claw at me.

Jump.

I wasn’t fast enough.

Her claw gouged a wound in my left arm before the power of the ring carried me out of the way.

And then, by the time I’d oriented myself, Mizuchi was in front of me again. She was just that much faster than I was.

I made another jab with Selys-Lyann, but she manifested an aura of flame around one hand and batted it harmlessly out of the way.

“I am curious where you got that. But not curious enough to keep you alive.”

Mizuchi raised a claw, an aura of electricity manifesting around it and growing thicker by the moment.

I tried to step back, but she lunged too quickly.

She would have hit me if someone else hadn’t hit her first. “Star descends from sky.”

The attack was now all-too-familiar, but it wasn’t Marissa who executed it.

Professor Conway slammed a fist into Mizuchi’s face, knocking her back just a few feet. “Go, Corin. Get your friends to safety. I will hold her as long as I can.”

I stepped back to disengage.

My left arm was burning from my wound, but fortunately, the regeneration function of my phoenix sigil was dulling that enough to keep me somewhat functional.

Professor Conway jumped and kicked Mizuchi in the chest, knocking her back further.

I found Vanniv finally moving, dragging Sera away from the battle. “Can you get her out of here?” I asked.

Vanniv nodded, looking determined. “Corin...” Sera coughed.

“Grab Marissa, too, if you can.” I instructed him.

“I will.” Vanniv slung Sera over one shoulder and Marissa over the other, then took flight.

I found Cecily pulling the sword fragment of out of Patrick’s chest. He wasn’t moving.

“Can you get him out of here?” I asked her.

“Not alone,” Cecily replied. Then she added, “Not being stubborn. I physically can’t carry Patrick.”

I nodded. He was pretty heavy.

And honestly, I didn’t know if he was even safe to move. That chest wound looked pretty bad.

I knelt down and put a hand on his chest, focusing my mana.

I hadn’t practiced healing magic, but this wasn’t exactly a good time to be picky.

At least I’d read up about the theory.

I concentrated and poured life mana toward the wound, then spread it and began to conceptualize the type of damage I was trying to repair. Bone and muscle began to knit themselves back together.

I wasn’t going to try to heal him completely. I just needed to try to stop the bleeding so he could be moved.

I didn’t get the chance.

Professor Conway’s body hit the ground a few feet away from us.

I looked up just in time to see Mizuchi’s tail whipping toward my face. Cecily moved faster than I did.

She reached down and grabbed her umbrella, blocking the tail and deflecting it out of the way.

Then, with one smooth motion, she pulled back on the handle of the umbrella and revealed a blade hidden inside.

Mizuchi swung a claw at her, but Cecily deflected it with the blade and riposted, sending Mizuchi stumbling back a step.

An arrow hit Mizuchi from behind a moment later, causing her to turn and rampage toward the guest section.

I turned my head toward her. “I...thought you said you weren’t a fighter.” “That was in relative terms.”

“Relative to who?”

Cecily shrugged, standing. “Keep healing him. I don’t know how you’re healing him, but it seems to be working.”

I nodded and went back to work. Patrick’s chest was rising and falling, at least.

I hoped that Marissa and Sera were okay. I hadn’t had the chance to check. Presumably, if Vanniv got them outside, he could find a healer somewhere in the crowd. They were both wearing their regenerative equipment, too. I’d insisted on that much.

I poured more mana into the wound, watching with fascination as the severed pieces of bone began to unite.

I couldn’t hope to do anything about any internal damage he suffered. I didn’t know how to diagnose it.

Once the wound was shut, I stopped, and switched to casting a Lesser Regeneration spell. Hopefully that would work along with his equipment toward healing any internal injuries.

With that done, I began to slowly lift Patrick from the ground.

Cecily turned to help, and together, the two of us began to inch toward the door.

There was virtually no one left at this point. Almost everyone was either dead, unconscious, or had fled the chamber.

So, I wasn’t particularly surprised when Mizuchi landed right in front of the open doorway, just before we made it there.

Cecily and I wordlessly set Patrick down and turned to a sideways dueling stance.

We’d done this together before, as children.

Of course, we hadn’t been fighting the neigh-invulnerable child of a god beast back then. We’d just been training against a very different kind of monster.

Mizuchi kicked over a nearby table, looking from side to side. “You children really are persistent. I think you’re the last ones left, though.”

“I’ll surrender if you’ll spare the other two,” I offered. Cecily actually kicked me when I said that.

“How very noble of you, but I’m afraid I’m not interested.” Mizuchi took a few steps forward. “A shame. I’ll remember you, at least. I remember the last one who used that sword against me, too.”

“Sorry, Cecily. I’ll try to keep her busy. Go—”

Then Mizuchi’s hand was around my neck, and she was lifting me off the ground. “I think not. There will be no more ‘holding me off’, no more stalling for time.”

Another voice came from right behind her. “You put that boy down this instant, young lady.”

I watched Mizuchi’s draconic features contort in confusion. Then she turned, dragging me by the throat.

Professor Vellum stood in the doorway to the room. “You,” Mizuchi hissed.

She tossed me to the side like an unwanted child. I hit the wall hard. I think I might have broken something. Possibly my pride.

“Yes, yes. Me. Shall we have a bit of a chat?” Vellum clapped her hands together.

Mizuchi’s swing ripped through the air, tearing straight through Vellum.

Without resistance, since the image of Vellum just wobbled a bit and then raised an eyebrow. “Come now, Mizuchi. You should know better than to believe I’d just walk right over here and talk to you from a few feet away.”

“You are not supposed to be here.” Mizuchi turned her head from side to side, searching.

“I’m obviously not. I thought I’d made that clear. Do pay attention.” Mizuchi hissed. “Then you will be unable to interfere with my meal.”

That was a good point, and one that sent me quickly scuttling back to my feet. I raised Selys-Lyann into a guard position and began to inch my way toward the door.

Cecily, however, was still on the other side of Mizuchi. With an unconscious Patrick that she couldn’t move on the floor next to her.

Resh.

Definitely going to have to do this the hard way.

I slashed in the air, projecting a shockwave of ice.

Mizuchi turned, looking mildly surprised, and raised a claw to block the attack.

I twitched my right hand.

The shockwave moved, shifting its path, and slammed Mizuchi in the face.

Ice formed where it impacted, and she raised her hands to claw it away. “Now! Run!” I yelled.

Cecily took one last look at Patrick, then turned and ran for the door.

I slashed at the air twice more, sending more shockwaves of ice to slow Mizuchi down before rushing for Patrick.

Mizuchi recovered too quickly. A wave of flame enveloped her body, pushing outward and clearing the frost.

She moved straight in between me and Patrick.

“I don’t believe I was done talking to you.” Vellum’s image said. “Perhaps this will get your attention?”

An explosion ripped through the air above us. The sudden noise and intensity naturally drew my gaze upward, and Mizuchi reacted in much the same way.

“Behold!” Vellum clapped her hands. Vibrant colors spread across the skies as another explosion occurred. “My power far eclipses your own.”

Mizuchi turned toward Vellum and hissed. “Really, old crone? You think I don’t know what fireworks are?”

I inched toward Patrick while Mizuchi was distracted. Any chance was better than no chance.

“No, no, dear. You’ve got it all wrong.” More fireworks exploded in the sky. Vellum pointed upward.

Mizuchi looked, shaking her head. “There’s nothing there. Just your parlor tricks.”

“That’s just the beauty of such tricks, my dear. They’re all about misdirection.”

Another Professor Vellum appeared right next to Mizuchi. “You were looking up when you should have been looking down.”

Mizuchi glanced down.

She was surrounded by a ring of runes.

“By my power, by divine power, by the power of the stars,” Vellum snapped her fingers. “I banish you from this place. Begone.”

The runes flashed. Mizuchi vanished.

Then Professor Vellum smiled, clutched her chest, and collapsed to the ground.

