CHAPTER XXIV – SCALES OF THE SERPENT



Five years had changed Tristan Cadence a great deal, but visually, he was much the same.

He was tall, with the athletic physique of a professional duelist, and the impeccable confidence to match. His brown hair was our mother’s, but it had grown much longer in his time away from home.

He may have had characteristics that mirrored our father as well, but I chose to ignore those.

Tristan wore a formal tunic that trailed to his feet, and a sword belted on his hip. He slowly shook his head. “I warned you not to come here, but I knew you wouldn’t listen.”

He opened his arms wide. “Welcome to my humble home.” I glanced from side to side. “Where are my friends?”

Tristan chuckled. “They’re fine. They went straight to a safe room on the next floor. I made special arrangements for when you passed through that doorway.”

I nodded slowly, examining the area further. “Was this all a part of your plan, then? Telling me not to come here, just to encourage me to do it?”

“No, no. I was sincere about that. It really was dangerous for you to come here, and you shouldn’t stay long. We’re both in danger right now. But since you made it obvious you were too stubborn to leave from written instructions alone, I decided it would be wise to tell you directly.”

I took a breath. “We can leave just as soon as you’re ready to go.” Tristan laughed. “If it was that simple, I’d have left a long time ago.”

I’d expected that answer. I frowned, scanning the area again while I considered my approach.

Tristan frowned. “You’re being awfully quiet. I assumed you’d object more strenuously.”

I turned my eyes back to him. “I’m looking for traps.”

“This isn’t that sort of room. Not that I blame you for checking, of course.”

Thinking of Tristan himself, I wasn’t entirely certain I agreed. His appearance here could have easily been a trap in itself.

I turned my attunement on.

He registered as having a Sunstone-level aura. Ordinary for his age, nothing like monstrously powerful youths like Derek or Elora.

I nodded to myself.

He’s probably suppressing his shroud.

I took a few steps forward. “Before we discuss things any further, I should confirm something. How can I be certain that you’re Tristan and not an illusion or trick?”

“Ah, good, we’re getting to that part already. Shall I tell you another story about our youth?”

I shrugged. “A simulacrum could tell a story.”

“Ah. Nothing I can do is going to prove I’m not a copy of myself. I can, however, at least convince you that I’m something with Tristan’s memories, and not a trap by someone else?”

I folded my arms. “A bit of transference mana could test if you’re a simulacrum.”

Tristan blinked. “You want to hit me with mana?” “It won’t hurt. Probably.”

Tristan sighed. “Does it even matter if I’m a simulacrum or not?”

“I’d really like to know. Someone else could control a simulacrum. Get you to say anything they want you to.”

“Humans can be controlled, too.” Tristan took a few steps closer. “Don’t you recall what happened to Derek?”

“You’re not exactly inspiring confidence by pointing out there are other ways you could be deceiving me.”

Tristan waved a hand dismissively. “Fine, fine. I’m not lying, though. It really is me. And you can run your little test.”

I channeled just a bit of transference mana in my hand, walked to a few feet away, and blasted him with it.

Tristan rubbed his shoulder, but he didn’t evaporate. “Satisfied?” I shook my head. “Not yet. Give me your hand.”

“Why?”

“I’m going to flood you with purified mana to attempt to free you from mental compulsion, since you pointed out you could be controlled by someone else.”

Tristan laughed. “I suppose that wouldn’t hurt anything.” He reached out his hand.

And, for the first time in five years, I held my brother’s hand. Then I bombarded it with mana.

Tristan made a perplexed expression. “That tingles a little.” “You’ll be fine.”

I waited until I’d given him what I approximated to be about fifty mana before releasing my grip.

“That felt a little odd...but no, I’m not mind controlled, Corin. This is really me. Are your tests done?”

“Those parts are, at least. Now, tell me something obscure that Tristan would know.”

Tristan smiled. “A better test. Let’s see... I always hated my middle name growing up, because I thought it sounded like a girl’s name.”

“Val does sound kind of like a girl’s name, yeah. They should have gone with Valor. But a lot of people know about your middle name.”

He raised an eyebrow. “Like who?”

“I’m not feeding you more information. Nice try.” I folded my arms. “Tell me something about myself.”

“You were always jealous of my height.”

“Too generic. Anyone could guess that. Try again.” “You were jealous of my swordsmanship, too.”

“So was virtually everyone your age and younger.”

Tristan pointed a finger at me. “Fine. Once, when you were about three, you stepped on an insect and it stopped moving. I explained to you that it was dead, and what that meant. You cried for the next hour. You were inconsolable.” He pulled a hand back to his hip. “From what I’ve seen, you haven’t changed.”

I glanced at him up and down. “You don’t seem to have changed much, either.”

“You’re wrong about that.” He turned his head away. “But if you believe my identity now, I suppose we can discuss more important things. I’m sure you have questions. Shall we start with some of the obvious ones?”

I nodded slowly, taking a breath. After all this time, it really was him. Tristan, my older brother, was right in front of me.

I should have been happier. I should have been thrilled.

But he wasn’t what I’d expected. He wasn’t dead, or chained to the walls of a dark cell.

He looked...normal. Healthy. Safe. I...didn’t know how to handle that.

I had so many questions I wanted to ask him. The first one that came to me wasn’t what I’d planned on. It just sort of slipped out.

“...why didn’t you come home?”

Tristan raised a hand to brush some unkempt hair out of his eyes. “That’s...sort of a complicated question.”

“I think I deserve an answer.” I shook my head. “I... Why didn’t you at least tell us you were alive? Mother, Father, and I... Everything changed while you were gone.”

Tristan shook his head slowly, a hint of sadness in his tone as he replied. “That wasn’t my choice. It wasn’t allowed.”

“Not allowed? By who?”

I found my hands balling into fists.

“Calm down, Corin. The simple answer is ‘Tenjin’, but there’s more to it.” He let out an exasperated breath, his expression somewhere between sadness and frustration. “I wasn’t expecting you to react like this. You seem almost upset to see me.”

I took a breath. “I’m not upset to see you, Tristan. I’m glad you’re alive.” My hands tightened again. “But when you first contacted me, you lied. I asked the Voice of the Tower if they knew anything about you, and you lied.”

Tristan hesitated for a moment, a pang of guilt playing across his features. “I just said that there were a lot of people who came through the tower, and—”

“Don’t play semantics. You deliberately deceived me.”

He nodded. “I did. I wasn’t ready to tell you. There were too many other things that needed to fall into place.”

“And you manipulated me into helping with that.”

Tristan furrowed his brow. “It wasn’t my first choice. But as I’m sure you recall, the first person who found the prison didn’t end well, and I had a limited time window to work with.”

“I...” I let my hands unclench. “You don’t know what it’s been like back at home without you.”

Tristan just shrugged at that. “I heard Mother and Father split up a few years ago.”

“That was just a small part. Father pulled me out of school. He was obsessed with ‘training’ me to be better than you, just so that I wouldn’t die in the spire like you had. It...wasn’t good for me, Tristan.”

Tristan actually laughed. “You think a little training is bad? You haven’t seen half the things I have, Corin. I’m sure that Father just wanted to help you be safe.”

“Safe?” I lifted up shirt of metallic leaves, and my own cloth shirt underneath.

Even with all the healing I’d gone through, and all the regeneration items, the scars from the blade of a dueling cane were clearly visible. “Does this look like he was trying to make me safe?”

“That’s...” Tristan shook his head. “I’m sorry, Corin. I didn’t know. But I’m sure Father was just trying to discipline you properly. You never were good at following instructions.”

Tristan smiled like it was an inside joke. Something that I should have been laughing at along with him.

I let my shirt sink back down, and I felt something in my heart sink along with it.

Tristan didn’t understand.

But how could he? He hadn’t been there. He hadn’t seen it.

He hadn’t heard the shouting or felt the blows.

There might have been some “training” involved at first, but in the end, there had only been anger.

I turned my head away. “I can’t talk about this anymore.”

“That’s fine. It wasn’t what I thought you were going to ask about, anyway. I’m sure you have other questions.”

I nodded slowly, taking deep breaths to try to calm myself. “How are you alive?”

“Ah. Now that’s more like it.” Tristan smiled again, seeming pleased that things were going back to the script he’d prepared for. “When we grew up, they told us there were two outcomes to a Judgment. Succeed, and you earn an attunement. Fail, and you die. We always had legends about survivors, of course, but they were few. You latched onto them even before I disappeared. You didn’t want to believe the goddess would kill people just for failing some stupid test.

“The irony is that you were right in a way, but terribly wrong in another. It’s not that the goddess spares the failures, as you’d hoped. It’s that she does considerably worse.”

“Worse?” I felt my heart sink further.

Tristan’s smile faded. “You see, Corin, when I finished my Judgment, I met someone. A man appeared to me, and he told me something that sounded wonderful. That many of those who disappeared in the tower were still alive, serving the will of the goddess.

“He told me that he was one such servant — a Whisper. An envoy of Tenjin himself. And that I had been chosen as one of only a dozen candidates to remain within the spire to train and join his order.

“I knew even then that it sounded too good to be true...but I wanted to believe. And he told me that if I changed my mind, I would only need to stay in the spire for five years. I would be given an attunement — a powerful one, that no ordinary person would be given — and a new identity to use if I chose to leave.

“I asked questions. He told me about the basics of what we would bedoing, and it’s much like a hundred scholars have speculated. People prepare rooms in the spire, change the connections. Prepare treasure and traps. It seemed reasonable, and I thought I could make a positive change if I stayed. Make the spires more efficient, less lethal. He assured me that others were already working to do the same. That the goddess wished to test us, not to kill us.”

Tristan shook his head.

“It doesn’t matter what the goddess wanted. She’s not paying any attention. Or, if she is, she doesn’t care.” He sighed. “The visages have been in charge for ages. And their interest isn’t in building humanity into something greater. It certainly isn’t in getting us to the top of the spires. The visages are just like any other petty despots. They have power now, and they’ll do whatever they can to keep it or expand it further.”

“What do you mean?”

“I mean that our society is built around a series of lies.”

His lips twisted into a sneer. “The ‘Tyrant in Gold’ rules the entire outside world. A lie.”

He turned his face upward. “The goddess watches over us and guides us on our path. A lie.”

He gestured to the whole room around us. “The visages do her will in the world, and help us to achieve greatness. A lie.”

“It’s all lies. The foundation of our culture is rotten.”

“We’re taught to avoid the world outside of Kaldwyn, but it’s not because it’s dangerous. It’s not because the Tyrant is in complete control. It’s because if we saw the other continents, we’d see other perspectives. Places that still oppose the Tyrant openly. And other lands where no one has ever heard of the Tyrant in Gold.”

“We’re taught that the goddess watches over us, but when has she ever intervened, for or against anyone? Selys may have existed once, but in effect, she’s as dead as the other gods. More so, perhaps. And if she does live? Look at her teachings. Look at how much is hidden from us. We are forced to worship her, and her alone.

“We are taught the outside world is dangerous, and few are even allowed to leave. People who know too much of the truth are kept imprisoned, as your friend Keras was, or branded to prevent them from speaking. What does that sound like to you, Corin? Because, to me, that sounds like the work of a tyrant.”

His words came faster and faster, almost hysterical. “But that isn’t even the worst of it. The visages are always seeking greater control. Perhaps some of them still believe in bits and pieces of the message that they espouse, that they will raise humanity to a higher standard.

“But look at their actions. When a kingdom — like Lavia, for example — grows too powerful? They smash it apart. When a culture clings too hard to old traditions that predate the coming of the goddess to these lands? They stamp them out. I’m sure you’ve heard that Edria had a visage marching with them during the invasion of Kelridge. Why do you think the other visages allowed that? Because human society has never been free.

“Their goal has never been anything less than the complete subjugation of our species. We are nothing but tools to them, game pieces to be played against the other visages in their struggles for dominance.”

I didn’t know what to say to all that. I pondered while he took a breath, and finally settled for a question. “How do you know all this?”

“Because I was a part of it, Corin. I was a Whisper. I worked for Tenjin directly. I learned the functions of the spire — and I watched hundreds, even thousands of people climb the spires. And I saw that as they rose higher, the challenges grew less and less fair.”

I held up a hand for him to pause. “Wait. I thought you were a Whisper of Wydd?”

Tenjin smiled. “That part came later. An offer came to do some work for the Whispers of Wydd. I accepted, of course, but remained in Tenjin’s retinue the entire time.”

I frowned. “Why?”

“By that point, I’d been working for Tenjin a few years, and I’d already seen the unfairness in the spires’ designs.”

“Unfairness?”

Tristan shook his head. “It seems humorous at first, when a room subverts expectations. It’s much less funny when a group of climbers does everything right, and everyone dies. Because they were set up to fail. I know this, because I followed orders. I helped build those unfair tests. I watched the results — until I could watch no longer.”

“But some people do reach the top...don’t they?” My voice was quiet, uncertain.

“Every few decades, perhaps. Someone who is exactly what the visage islooking for. Someone who shows the right loyalties. The right amount of faith in the goddess. Someone powerful, but easy to manipulate. Reaching the top of the spire has never simply been about being the best. It’s about being someone the visages believe they can use.”

Tristan smiled. “Your friend Keras, for example, would never reach the top of this spire. They know his goals, and they would not wish for him to succeed. It doesn’t matter how powerful he is; they’d simply put in a room with no exits.”

“That’s...” I shook my head. “Why wouldn’t they want Keras to reach the top of the spire?”

“Because they’re afraid of the changes he’d cause if he managed to find a way to speak to the goddess herself. That is one of the few things I actually agree with the visages on.”

I blinked. “Why? What would happen?”

Tristan folded his hands in front of him. “Keras plans to ask the goddess to do something active in the world. I don’t know exactly what it is, but if he succeeds in drawing Selys back into world affairs, it could be catastrophic.

I’m not convinced she’s even alive, but if she is, it’s better for her to remain uninvolved in world affairs. That is preferable to a being with her degree of power that may decide we’ve all been a failed experiment.”

That’s a grim way of looking at it, but he has a point.

I wanted to believe that if Selys was real, and she was made aware of our problems, maybe she’d make things better.

But I wasn’t the one who had been trapped in a spire of Selys’ design for the last five years. I could see why Tristan might be less excited about the goddess taking any further steps to intervene in human affairs.

If Selys was powerful enough to create the God Beasts and the visages, she was clearly much more powerful than they were, at least as individuals. If she didn’t like how a nation developed, would she simply wipe them off the planet?I didn’t want to find out.

But I still had many other questions. “Wait. So, why switch allegiances to Wydd, then? They’re still a visage.”

“Knowledge. Forbidden knowledge, to be specific.” Tristan folded his hands. “I learned a great deal from working with the Whispers of Wydd. Things about the inner workings of the spires. The functionality ofattunements. Monsters. Bits of information that could be used as tools to aid in my plans.”

“So, you learned these things...and what, started a revolution?”

“Ah, I wish I could take credit for such a thing, but no.” Tristan shook his head. “I’m relatively new to all this. People have been watching the terrors wrought by the visages for centuries. Planning. Paving the way for future generations to act. I am only one participant in this, and I am not even one of the leaders of the current movement.”

“How did you get involved, then?” Tristan smiled. “Mother, of course.”

“Mother? She’s one of the people causing all this?”

He shook his head. “No, not exactly. Only in the loosest sense. She did not organize anything — that was already happening before I even was recruited into the spire. It started with Orden and her ilk, working within the Whispers, and other powerful organizations. They recruited high-ranking priests and government officials who knew the truth.

“No, Mother’s life changed when she reached the halfway point of the spire, and she was offered a deal.”

I frowned. “A deal?”

“As I said, the visages do not wish for anyone to reach the top of the spire unless they have the proper characteristics. Mother was powerful, influential, and dedicated. She had a singular goal. She would have pursued it to her dying day if she needed to.” He turned his head to the side. “But it was not to be.”

“What was this deal?”

Tristan turned back to me. “Tenjin came to her directly. He praised her for her achievements, having reached higher in the spire than anyone had in decades. And he offered her a gift — a boon that he would grant himself if she would never set foot in the spire again.”

I felt my heart sink. “And she asked for him to bring you back.” “Indeed.” Tristan laughed. “It was her goal from the beginning. Tenjinknew this; he had watched her, and she had mentioned it often to the others who climbed with her from time to time. He told her that I was alive, and in his service. She was overjoyed at first, until she learned that Tenjin would not allow me to leave.”

“Tenjin’s compromise was that he let us meet. He believed that I was loyal, and that simply knowing that I was alive and healthy would be enough for mother.” Tristan shook his head. “We were allowed to talk within the spire for a single hour. Ostensibly in private, but I knew that we’d be watched. I could not tell her the truth there, but I was able to pass her a seemingly innocuous book.”

“A book like mine?”

Tristan nodded. “Precisely. It’s possible Tenjin realized what I’d given her and simply chose not to act. But I took the risk, and it worked. I wrote to her. I explained what I knew. And she began to plan, recruiting more people outside the spire to our plan. She became instrumental to our efforts, since few of those who know what I do are ever allowed to leave.”

“But why did Tenjin allow the meeting at all? Why not just tell her that you were dead, and beyond his abilities to revive?”

“It is unwise for the visages to admit to weaknesses or limitations. It undermines their authority. Moreover, I believe Tenjin thought she could be manipulated. Perhaps, up until the point where he was captured, he believed everything was still going according to plan. Even beings as ancient as they are have the ability to make mistakes. In fact, an inability to accurately anticipate how humans think is perhaps one of their greatest weaknesses.”

“Couldn’t he have just let you leave, then? Only letting you speak for an hour must have seemed like a poor reward for all of Mother’s years of climbing.”

Tristan shook his head. “I should probably explain something else. There would have been an uprising long ago if those of us within the spires had the freedom to do as we chose. But we are carefully watched and, of course, limited by other factors.”

He lifted up his shirt.

His entire chest was covered with a massive runic inscription. “Is that...a brand? Like the one Katashi had put on me?”

“Precisely. A much more complex variation. The more knowledge and access a Whisper is given, the more is added to our brand — and the more things we’re restricted from. In my case, the core function is to prevent me from ever leaving the spire. It would explode if I did, and I assure you that would be quite fatal.”

“Couldn’t Tenjin just have removed it? Maybe removed your memories?” Tristan pulled his shirt back down, then put a hand over his chest. “Perhapswith great effort, but the brand was not Tenjin’s work. It was placed by another visage.”

“Wydd, I presume?”

“Precisely. Tenjin may have been able to remove it, but if Wydd learned of that, it may have caused a conflict between them. It was not worth the risk.

Moreover, Tenjin has always framed these marks as something he disagrees with, that Wydd forces upon us.”

“Wait. So Tenjin knew you were working for Wydd?”

Tristan nodded. “Oh, of course. Working for another visage from time to time was not unusual. I may have made it sound clandestine, but any work that I performed for Wydd went through approved channels. The only ‘secret’ portion was that the Whispers of Wydd believed I was loyal to Wydd, and Tenjin believed I was loyal to him.”

“Why would he take the risk of keeping you close if there was any chance that your loyalties could be compromised?”

Tristan chuckled. “I don’t think you understand precisely how powerful these visages are. Under ordinary circumstances, no human could possibly challenge them. That has led to each and every one of them developing a degree of arrogance. Tenjin probably knew there was a chance that Wydd would try to use me against him in some way, but he would never have expected it to be a physical assault.”

Tristan shook his head. “Similarly, I suspect he believed that Mother or I would take out our aggression against Wydd, if we felt that it was Wydd that was keeping us apart. He thought he could manipulate us to his own ends.”

I nodded at that. “But he failed. You moved against Tenjin first.” “Indeed. Not because Tenjin is the worst of the visages, but because ofconvenience. Once Mother had the book, I was able to explain a great deal to her. She spoke with many of the Whispers who operated out of the spire, and they made plans. When we learned that Vera Corrington was coming to the spire to test a new form of artificial attuned, it was a perfect opportunity to lure Tenjin into a vulnerable position. We took it.”

“I still don’t understand how you managed to incapacitate a visage.” Tristan chuckled, stepping out of the doorway and finally letting it close.

“A great deal of knowledge of how his abilities work, the element of surprise, and a good deal of luck.”

I hesitated now that he was approaching. I didn’t think he was going toattack me, but I was still on high alert. “That’s not a real answer.”

“No, you’re right. But I can’t tell you everything.” He tapped his chest.

I understood the gesture, but I wasn’t going to take that simple of a response. “You could claim that anything you don’t want to tell me is one of the things your brand prevents.”

“Also true. But I have no motivation to omit things like the weaknesses of the visages. I want them to be defeated.”

“Including Wydd? Or are they helping you?”

Tristan shook his head. “That’s an excellent question, not no, Wydd isn’t working with us. I’m sure Wydd is aware of everything that is happening, however, and they probably have an angle on how to use it to their advantage.”

I tilted my head to the side. “Why did you imply that you wanted me to join the Whispers of Wydd, then?”

“Ah. That.” Tristan shrugged. “I planned to have you infiltrate them to get information for me. But things change, and that’s no longer wise. The details are unimportant.”

I frowned, considering. “Who’s backing you for all this, if it isn’t Wydd?You implied you had someone powerful helping you.”

Tristan shook his head. “Sorry. Can’t talk about that. But it’s not Wydd, and I’ll say that it isn’t the Tyrant, either.”

I gave him a dirty look. “I don’t like the fact that you’re still keeping secrets.”

“You’re going to have to accept a degree of it. I’m sorry for that. But just as you don’t trust me, I can’t completely trust you with everything, either.”

That made a degree of sense, but I still felt a brief surge of frustration. “Fine, fine. But why try to attack the visages directly like this? I mean, it’s obvious you feel they’re manipulating people, but what’s your end goal here? Killing them all? Would that even be possible?”

“Perhaps it would be, but that would be a terrible risk at best.” Tristan shook his head. “No, that’s not my goal. Although it is a more popular one.”

“What do you mean?”

“As I said, I’m not in charge of this little uprising. Many Whispers have far more influence than I. I played a key part in imprisoning Tenjin, and that has earned me a degree of clout, but I am not the one making all the decisions.

And that, unfortunately, has put you in harm’s way. I am sorry for that.” He didn’t sound particularly sorry.

“You mean what happened with Mizuchi? What was that about?”

“Someone working to remove competition. The uprising has a central ideal— that humanity must be liberated from the oppression of the visages. This sounds like a good unifying factor on the surface, but there’s no agreement in how to go about doing it. This has resulted in the birth of three sub-factions, each with different goals.”

He raised a finger. “First, and most prominently, you have the Godslayer faction. They believe the visages must be killed. They also believe that anyone who has been complicit in the visages retaining control, such as the rulers of most kingdoms and the highest ranking priests, should also be removed.”

Tristan raised a second finger. “The Peacemaker faction believes that our goal should be to work with the visages, and get them to acknowledge their faults. That we should, perhaps, show a firm hand and our willingness to fight, but that ultimately we are better off working with the visages than against them.”

“Finally,” he raised a third finger, “There is my faction. A much smaller group, with little support and different goals.” He paused. “It was the Godslayer faction that employed Mizuchi to attack that ball. Their goal was to remove important figures of government, as well as supporters for the Peacemaker faction and my own group.”

“How is that possible? Shouldn’t Mizuchi only be able to leave the spire with the help of a visage?”

Tristan shook his head. “A powerful enough Summoner with a contract with Mizuchi could use a true summoning spell to bring her outside of the spire. I believe that is what happened.”

I tightened my jaw. “A powerful Summoner...like Elora Theas, perhaps?” “I find it unlikely that it was Elora, but you’re wise to suspect her. She hasthe capability to accomplish such a thing, but I don’t believe she has the motivation.”

I nodded. “Do you have any idea on who else it might be?”

“I’m not certain. I’ve had minimal contact with the outside world. You probably know more Summoners than I do.”

I didn’t think I knew any as powerful as Elora, but I could do some diggingat the Divinatory another time. “And this faction of yours — what is it?”

“I’m glad you asked.” He clapped his hands together. “I call us Ascension. I believe there is a fundamental flaw in simply trying to eliminate the visages or work with them. In the first case, we would then be at the whim of other powerful beings, either from within our continent or the outside world. The latter case is an overly optimistic dream. There is no way to negotiate with a being that can wipe out your cities with a swipe of their hand and outlive you a hundred times over.

“The visages do not rule us because they are too strong. They rule us because humanity is too weak. If we ever truly wish for humanity to emerge from the shadow of the visages, we must rise to be their equals. And that, my dear brother, is my goal. To raise every human being — not just a chosen few— to power comparable to that of the visages themselves.”

I folded my arms. “That sounds good from a conceptual standpoint, but what happens when any ordinary person who has a bad day can wipe out a city?”

Tristan nodded. “Giving everyone exactly the same capabilities as a visage would be a mistake, of course. We do not need every human being to have that degree of offensive power. But imagine if every human had a Guardian attunement, at a level higher than Emerald, and bodies as resilient as a serpent’s.

“Imagine if no one had to die from malnutrition, disease, or accidents. And if an outside force chose to invade our continent? Every citizen could break swords with their bare hands. Bullets would deflect from their shrouds.”

I’d considered much the same, though on a smaller scale, when I first thought about the potential ramifications of artificial attunements. Widespread Wayfarer attunements for rapid transportation. Elementalists who simply manipulated the weather to improve crop yields. Menders on every street in case someone was injured.

It was an appealing prospect, but it seemed almost too good to be true.

A part of me tried to fabricate reasons in my mind why it was too dangerous, or why it couldn’t be possible.

But I knew the truth — there was a part of me that was just afraid of change. And another part that was afraid of losing what made me special.

I’d risked my life for that attunement. Was it really fair for others to get them for free? Perhaps even any attunement of their choice?But that was an inherently selfish line of thinking.

If there was a way that everyone could have attunements, in a way that didn’t cause great harm, that was a goal worth striving toward.

But if that really was Tristan’s goal, it still raised further questions. “If your goal is widespread attunements for humanity, why did you sabotage Vera’s test?”

“That was Orden’s work, not mine. And while I could have opposed her, I would have failed. She was one of very few Whispers who had enough trust from the visages to work outside of the spires. I’m sure she had a brand to prevent her from talking about certain things, but she had freedom, and that freedom gave her power and influence.” He turned his head toward the room he’d exited from.

“But Orden is out of the picture now, and I have access to excellent sources of research. Moreover, artificial attunement research continues unimpeded within Caelford. While Vera’s team was important, they were only one group of several.”

I turned toward the doors he’d come from and pointed. “That room — that’s where you’re keeping Tenjin? And those other researchers?”

Tristan shook his head. “I won’t answer that. I wanted you to know why I’m doing what I’m doing, but you’re not working with me. I’d like you to, and I’ll make you that offer here and now. But it would take time and trust before I would give you a secret as great as Tenjin’s location.”

I could respect that. I was getting used to having secrets of my own. “Okay. I do have to ask one more thing, though.”

“Of course. I’m sure you have many questions.”

“When you first were admitting who you were in the book... Why’d you send me a villain monologue?”

Tristan broke into laughter. “I was a bit over the top, wasn’t I? In truth, I didn’t know what to say to you. I would have told you the truth earlier, but I couldn’t risk the possibility that Orden was going to find your book. Until she was out of the picture, I couldn’t write my name in there. If she’d known I had ways of communicating with the outside world, she could have used that against me. Had me executed, even.” He shook his head. “But aside from that? There’s a part of me that wanted to motivate you.”

“In what way? I already was looking for you.”

“Of course. And...” He looked pained for a moment. “Thank you, Corin.

Like Mother, you never stopped believing that I might be alive. You even asked about me during your Judgment. I’m grateful for that. You’ve alwaysasked questions — that’s something I respect about you.” “But?”

“But I needed you to dig deeper. I needed you to consider the possibility that anyone could be a threat. Even me. You need to internalize that. It will help you survive the things to come.”

“And those things are?”

“I’m working on it.” Tristan sighed. “I have plans, of course, but the attack on the ball injured or killed many of my key allies. It’s going to take me some time to—”

There was a loud snap as the door behind me flew off its hinges. I spun, drawing my sword.

I heard the sound of metal sliding against leather from behind me as Tristan did the same.

In front of us, in the open doorway, was my sister. Sera.

How is she—A figure behind her pushed her forward.

Sera stumbled, then broke into a run toward me. “Go ahead and run, Summoner.”

Mizuchi smiled as she stepped into the room, glancing from side to side. She was in her human form, with the long purple hair. “I’d be glad to have you all in one place. It’s easier to kill you at the same time that way.”

I ran to Sera, stopping when she was near me. “What happened? How are you here?”

Sera stopped running when she reached me. “She summoned me.” “...what?”

Mizuchi laughed. “You humans are so arrogant. You forget that we serpents are superior beings. And that we can learn your little ‘attunement’ arts, too.”

I glanced at Sera. “But without a contract...”

Sera let out a nervous chuckle, stepping behind me. She was unarmed, and had a long gash along her right arm. “I cast a binding on her during the fight in the ball.”

“And what your sister didn’t realize is that when you have a binding or a contact with another Summoner, they go both ways.” Mizuchi clasped her hands together. “Of course, normally I would have ignored a little girl trying to bind me, as insolent of a gesture as it was. But imagine my surprise when I learned that she was the sister of the legendary Tristan Cadence. Blood of his blood.”

I glanced at Sera’s injury and realized what had happened at the same time Tristan explained it.

“A tracking spell.” Tristan stepped forward next to the two of us, assuming a traditional dueling stance. “But I know your abilities, Mizuchi. Summoning is among them, but Divination is not.”

“Ah, yes, quite right.” Mizuchi turned back toward the doorway. “Come along, darling. Don’t be shy.”

Researcher stepped into the room after her, her head bowed in shame. “I...” “I didn’t tell you to speak, dear. I’m just showing you so they understandtheir mistake.” And I did.

I remembered where I’d seen Mizuchi before — stepping out of the restricted section of the Divinatory.

When I’d helped Mara during her test, she’d told me that serpents could learn attunement abilities. She’d also told me that they could assume a human form, but often with some distinguishing characteristics. Like purple hair, for example. The same color as Mizuchi’s scales.

That hadn’t been enough for me to consider the possibility that Researcher’s Summoner had been someone who wasn’t human.

While I could conceptualize the idea of a serpent living in human society in disguise, the thought that one of them might have already been doing something like that so close to me... it had never even occurred to me.

How long had Mizuchi been monitoring the academy? It was right outside the spire, so she could have summoned Researcher and left her at the academy at any time she’d been outside. It could have been years before.

Or maybe she wasn’t Researcher’s original Summoner — she’d just made a contract later, like at the time I’d seen Mizuchi leaving.

It didn’t matter at the moment.

What mattered was that we’d been completely outmaneuvered.

“You’re a difficult man to find, Tristan Cadence.” Mizuchi stepped forward. She was still a good twenty feet from us, but that barely meant anything with her speed and ranged attacks. “I was fortunate I detected Researcher’s entry to the spire and summoned her to see what she was doing.

“Imagine how surprised I was to learn that you were planning to meet with your brother! I’d have never reached you if you’d been wise enough to remain in your little sanctum, but you were foolish enough to step outside.”

Tristan stepped out in front of Sera and me. “What do you want, Mizuchi?” “I think I already made that perfectly clear.” She raised a hand, inspectingit. The hand shifted into a claw. “You have committed the worst sort of treason, Tristan Cadence. I’m certain that you’re aware the penalty for that is execution.”

Tristan raised his off-hand into a gesture to wait. “If you do that, you’ll never learn where Tenjin is.”

“I’m sure I’ll learn to live with my disappointment.”

Researcher stepped forward from the doorway. “I’m...sorry, Corin. If I’d refused to help her, she’d have broken our contract. I’d be gone forever.”

I understood not wanting to die. “It’s okay. We’ll figure this out.” “Such an optimist. You’re very like your mother. It’s a shame she’s nothere to see her children die, but I’ll make sure to tell her all about it before I deal with her.”

Tristan stepped forward again. “Can I confirm who sent you, at least, if you’re planning to kill us anyway?”

“A good try, dear, but no. How about you stop moving and prepare to die?”

I felt my body freeze as Mizuchi’s spell took hold. I was getting really tired of mental compulsion spells, and this one was extremely potent.

Fortunately, I had planned for this.

“Ignore her commands,” I whispered to myself.

That activated the Ring Formerly Known as the Ring of Derek Controlling, which I’d modified to only activate based on my instructions.

The perception mana flooded into me, successfully overriding Mizuchi’s command. Her spell was weaker than what she’d used in the ballroom, most likely because she was still recovering from being banished.

I took a step forward, preparing to draw my weapon.

“Shrugged that one off somehow? Okay, just go ahead and kill yourselves.”

I struggled as her command washed over me, raising my sword. Not to fight Mizuchi, but to follow her order.

“Ignore her,” I commanded myself. The ring activated again, but this time, she’d put more effort into the spell. The ring wasn’t working quickly enough.

My arm continued to move against my will, bringing my sword up to my throat. I struggled to convert my mana into mental mana, but I was failing.

Tristan took a breath, then stepped back and put a hand on my shoulder, seemingly unaffected by Mizuchi’s spell. “Absorb magic.”

I felt Mizuchi’s spell tear out of me, freeing me from the paralysis in an instant.

It was not a pleasant sensation. Still, I was glad to be free. He repeated the process with Sera. “Absorb magic.”

Sera and I shivered as we recovered from the spells, taking a few more steps back.

Mizuchi shook her head. “That attunement of yours is extremely irritating.

I suppose we’ll have to do this the hard way.”

“It can be a lot more than irritating.” Tristan took another step closer to Mizuchi, retaining his combat stance. “Don’t test me. You won’t like the results.”

Mizuchi laughed. “You think you can threaten me?”

“You’re not at your full strength. You were just banished recently. I doubt you can even transform.” Tristan took a step forward. “My brother here fought you when you were at full strength and made it through. I’m willing to bet I can do better.”

“Your brother survived because I let him survive, fool.” Mizuchi let out a growl. “And while I may not be at my full strength, I’m still more than capable of handling a few human children.”

While Tristan briefly had Mizuchi’s attention, I reached into my bag and opened the Jaden Box. “Retrieve: Healing Potion.”

I handed it to Sera. “Drink that.”

She nodded, accepted the potion, and drank it. The wound on her armbegan to close.

It wasn’t much, but if we were going to fight Mizuchi, I wanted to be as prepared as possible.

And giving her the healing potion had given me another idea.

“I’m done chatting.” Mizuchi clapped her hands together. “Now begins the killing. After I prevent you from fleeing, that is.”

She whirled around, moving as a blur away from us. Then her claw was scratching a rune into the wall.

I realized what it was immediately — an anti-teleportation rune. She was sealing off our only means of escape.

In that moment, I could have activated the necklace and fled before she finished it. But Tristan couldn’t leave the spire; his brand would kill him.

And I was not leaving him behind to die.

I glanced at Tristan with my attunement active. His aura was still Sunstone. If he’d been hiding his power like I’d expected, he hadn’t made any move to change it.

When I looked at Mizuchi, I saw something far more interesting. Her shroud was shimmering, with several colors, which I recognized as being multiple layers.

Much like me, she had the equivalent of multiple attunements. Or at least multiple shrouds.

Several of them. I couldn’t count the number; it was too much of a blur. Sera acted in the moment while Mizuchi was distracted. “Wall.”

A wall of ice appeared, crossing the entire room between us and Mizuchi.

“Wall. Wall. Wall.” She layered more walls in our way, knowing they wouldn’t last long.

I turned to Tristan. “Can you beat her, since she’s weaker than usual?”

Tristan raised a hand to his face and laughed hysterically. “Goddess, no. I was bluffing. We don’t stand a chance.”

“Then can you get Keras to us?”

Mizuchi finished her rune, turning toward us and taking a deep breath.

I saw something interesting then, since my attunement was still active; one of the layers of her shroud vanished as she inhaled.

That was fascinating.

“Not from here,” Tristan replied. “Only from the sanctum. There’s no time.”

Mizuchi exhaled, blasting a jet of flame straight through all four layers of Sera’s wall.

Tristan jumped in the way of the attack.

For an instant, Tristan was engulfed in fire, and my heart sank.

Then the flames twisted and converged into a single point — his right fist. He stepped toward Mizuchi. The flames surged upward from his hand,enveloping his sword. “Thanks. I needed something that could hurt you.” Mizuchi growled and lunged at him, moving faster than I could follow.

Tristan could, though. He stepped out of the way, swinging and hitting Mizuchi with his burning blade. The flames exploded on contact, and Mizuchi flew backward, cracking into the ice wall.

Sera pointed. “Wall.”

Another wall appeared in front of Mizuchi and curved around her, effectively trapping her between two walls.

Tristan stepped forward as Mizuchi began battering the wall with her fists, snarling as ice cracked away.

I reached back into my bag. “Retrieve: Healing Potion.” A healing potion appeared.

Mizuchi burst through the ice.

Tristan jabbed at her again, but she evaded this time, and his sword hit the ice. She slammed him in the chest with a claw, and he flew backward, disarmed.

Mizuchi lunged at Tristan, but Sera raised another ice wall. Mizuchi crashed into it.

Tristan clutched at his ribs, stumbling back. I tossed him my sword.

He caught it just as Mizuchi burst through the wall, then swung it in mid- air and projected a shockwave.

The wave of ice slammed into Mizuchi with no effect. Then she was right next to Tristan, swinging at him again.

Tristan barely managed to step backward and avoid the blow. I stopped watching. I had work to do.

“Retrieve: Mage’s Folly.”

The herb appeared. I opened the healing potion and tossed it inside. The liquid changed from red to black.

“Retrieve: Queen’s Crown.”

Another herb appeared. I tossed it in. The liquid bubbled and sparkled. I replaced the stopper and looked back at the fight.

Tristan was down on the ground. Mizuchi was right on top of him, holding his arms. She was laughing and squeezing, probably with enough force to break bones.

I ran just a few steps closer to make sure my aim was good, then threw the potion at her.

The glass bottle exploded across her back. She let go of Tristan and screamed.

Mage’s Folly reversed the effect of a concoction. Queen’s Crown greatly amplified the effect.

I’d hit her with a reversed, amplified healing potion.

Tristan struggled to get out from under her while she screamed, but she was still pinning him with her body. She swiped a clawed hand downward, and I saw blood splatter as it gouged across his face.

Sera hit Mizuchi with a blast of wind, and Mizuchi was sufficiently distracted that the air knocked her away.

Mizuchi was rising again in a moment, though. She took a breath, and flames burst from her body, evaporating the potion before it could do more damage.

That was bad, because I’d hoped the potion would continue to burn through her and deal more damage.

It was also enlightening, however. One of the layers of her shroud vanished when she inhaled, just like when she’d used her breath attack.

That gave me something to consider, but I had something more urgent to worry about.

Scales were beginning to appear across her skin. She was changing forms.

It would take a few seconds, but that wasn’t enough time for much. I reached into my bag again, trying to think.

Sera ran toward where Researcher was standing in the doorway. She said something, but I couldn’t hear her.

Tristan was still on the ground, clutching at his face. Selys-Lyann lay nearby.

Think, Corin. Think!“Retrieve: Keras’ blood. Summon Keras Selyrian.” Nothing happened.

I’d hoped that being inside the spire, maybe the additional mana and the short distance would be enough to let the box work. But that hope had been in vain.

That was fine. I had other options. “Store: Keras’ Blood. Retrieve: Silverbrand.”

A silver dagger appeared in my hand. I knew that, at least according to Keras, it was a powerful magical item that had once belonged to Wrynn Jaden.

I hurled it at Mizuchi.

It bounced off her scales and fell to the floor without effect.

Note to self: Foreign magical items are not always as useful as the Jaden Box.

After that, Mizuchi was done transforming.

Wings and a tail burst from her back. Horns emerged from her head. Her entire body was covered with scales now.

“Now,” she turned toward Sera, “You’re the weakest one, Summoner. I think you’ll be first.”

Sera whispered, “You’re wrong.”

“What was that, dear? Speak up.” Mizuchi floated a few feet off the ground, then reached up and formed a ball of flame in her right hand.

“I said, you’re wrong.”

“About which point?”

“All of it.” Sera reached out her right hand. She was wearing her bracer, the one I’d given her that enhanced Summoning spells. “I’m not weak. I’m not going to die. And,” she grinned, “I’m not a Summoner. Not anymore.”

Her bracer glowed for a moment, then she brought her hands together in front of her. “Vanniv, I invoke your power.”

Sera’s entire body began to glow as mana burned in the air around her.

Then wings of stone appeared behind her, merging with a suit of stone armor that formed around her body from the neck down.

“An ascended attunement.” Mizuchi tilted her head downward for a moment. “You’re an Invoker now. That’s very interesting. If ultimately meaningless.”

Mizuchi hurled her sphere of fire, but Sera just raised a hand and pointed at it. A gust of wind blasted the sphere, detonating it early.

The blast was large enough that it hurled me off my feet, and I landed several feet away. My silver phoenix sigil protected me from the heat, though.

Tristan wasn’t quite as lucky. The explosion hit him on the ground, and I could see that he’d been badly burned.

I pulled myself to my feet and reached into my bag. Sera soared upward. Mizuchi followed.

I ran to Tristan. “Retrieve: Healing Potion.” Tristan sat up, and I shoved the potion at him.

The right side of his face was a bloody mess, and a good portion of his chest and neck were covered with burns. His shroud had stopped the blast from being fatal, at least.

He awkwardly reached for the potion. I put it in his hand.

“Thanks,” he managed, drinking it and coughing. “You should go. Run for the door she came in, then teleport once you’re outside.”

I shook my head. “I’ve been working to see you again for five years. I am not letting you die here.”

Above us, Mizuchi hurled blasts of lightning at Sera, but she shaped them out of the way. They struck the walls and blasted apart chunks of stone.

I didn’t know how Sera was powerful enough to be countering Mizuchi’sattacks. She was clearly still fighting on the defensive, but she’d never been able to counter anything close to the level of Mizuchi’s attacks.

At the moment, I had more pressing concerns. “Retrieve: Healing Potion.

Retrieve: Healing Potion.”

I laid out the two remaining potions. “Drink these. I’m going to see if I can help Sera somehow.”

I picked up Selys-Lyann.

Tristan grudgingly began to drink the potions, shaking his head. “You can’t beat her.”

“No.” I shook my head. “But I’m not alone.” I pointed my sword upward.

It was a bad angle for trying to send a slash in Mizuchi’s direction, and I’d seen that it wasn’t powerful enough to do much to her in her current state, anyway.

Instead, I remembered what Keras had taught me.

I concentrated, forming a mana thread and connecting it to the sword’s runes, then reshaping the ice energy around the blade. I formed it into a single point around the tip, as if I was planning to thrust.

Mizuchi flew toward Sera, raising a claw that glimmered with mana. Sera flew to the side to dodge, but the claw was a feint.

Mizuchi’s tail snapped upward, tearing off one of Sera’s stone wings. Unbalanced, Sera fell from the sky.

Mizuchi descended after her, ready to strike. I struck first.

My ring of jumping wasn’t recharged yet, but the fall from the last room had made it clear that I didn’t really need it.

I jumped, blasting myself upward with transference mana, and jammed my sword into Mizuchi’s wing.

Even with the added force of transference mana pushing me, the sword failed to pierce her scales.

But a physical attack bypassed her shroud, and that meant the ice that I’d been gathering into a single point connected straight with her wing.

Mizuchi hissed as the ice blasted over her wing and began to spread further. She lost her focus on the attack and flew to the side, then descended slowly to the ground.

I flew backward from the force of the impact, but landed on my feet.

Sera landed less gracefully, smashing into the ground on her back. She groaned and pulled herself to her feet a moment later, but with only one wing intact, she couldn’t fly.

Mizuchi shook herself as the ice spread, then groaned, took a breath, and emitted a blast of flame from all around her. The ice melted.

Again, one of the layers of her shroud vanished as she emitted the flames, confirming the pattern that I’d suspected.

Every time she breathed in for an attack, she was weakening her own shroud.

But it didn’t last long. I could already see a new layer of the shroud forming around her.

Still...maybe it was enough.

Sera was standing again. She conjured a ball of lightning and hurled it at Mizuchi, but Mizuchi simply walked into it. The attack hit her shroud and deflected out of the way without effect.

“Is that the best you can do, little girl? You really think that invoking a single monster is going to be good enough to beat me?”

Mizuchi flew forward as a blur, far too fast.

A terrified voice yelled something from the doorway. “Sera, jump!” Mizuchi swung her tail at Sera an instant later.

Sera jumped over the strike, then swung her remaining wing and smashed it into Mizuchi’s chest.

The serpent staggered backward, hissing. “Oh, I’m going to kill that bitch. Researcher!” She turned her head toward the doorway.

Researcher was cowering there.

Mizuchi tilted her head downward. “I warned you what would happen if you betrayed me.”

“I...” Researcher shook her head. “Corin is my friend. I don’t want you to hurt him anymore. Or anyone else.”

I felt something in my heart give way when I realized what was about to happen.

I charged at Mizuchi swinging, but I was far too slow.

“You don’t get to have friends. You don’t get to have anything, in fact.

Researcher, I break our contract.”

I expected Researcher to vanish. To die the moment her contract was broken.

But I hadn’t been paying enough attention. Neither had Mizuchi.

“I never planned to beat you by invoking one monster.” Sera turned toward the Mizuchi. “So I made another contract. Researcher, I invoke your power.”

A brilliant nimbus of light engulfed Sera for the briefest of moments, then collapsed inward toward her face. When the light faded, her eyes continued to glow.

That was what Sera had been doing when she’d rushed toward the doorway. She’d made a contract with Researcher, allowing Researcher to survive without Mizuchi.

Mizuchi howled and rushed toward Researcher, but Sera formed a whirlwind of mana that shot herself directly into Mizuchi’s path.

When Mizuchi swept her tail at Sera, the attack missed by a large margin.

The next three swipes of her claws were equally ineffective, with Sera somehow anticipating them and stepping out of the way.

She’s using Divination to anticipate Mizuchi’s movements, I realized.

Researcher must have been doing that before, which is why she knew to warn Sera to jump. And now she’s given Sera that ability.

Mizuchi stepped back and pulled her hands together, firing a wide blast of flame that enveloped nearly the entire half of the room that Sera was in.

Sera didn’t have nearly the power to counter it directly, even with Vanniv’s power. Instead, she fired a much smaller blast of ice, which burrowed a small hole in the fire blast. She stood in the exact spot it cleared, with the fire blast washing over her without causing damage.

She countered with a blast of lightning, which hit Mizuchi directly, but didn’t deal any damage.

I did notice something potentially important, though. It wasn’t the first layer of Mizuchi’s shroud that deflected the lightning; it went through two layers before deflecting off the third.

In that moment, I developed a hypothesis, but I couldn’t be certain about it. I moved to Tristan. He was back on his feet.

I handed him my sword. “Next time she takes a breath, I want you to hit her immediately, as hard as you can. Push the ice aura into her if you can.”

He nodded. Even after the potions, he was still in bad shape, and half his face was still covered in blood.

His right eye was closed. I suspected it was ruined.

He took the sword anyway and walked closer to where Sera and Mizuchi were still exchanging blows.

Sera was still anticipating Mizuchi’s strikes, but she lacked Mizuchi’s raw speed.

Mizuchi swung a claw, extending her aura much like Keras would, but forming three massive blades rather than a single one. Sera formed a shield of ice and blocked the attack, then responded with a burst of fire.

The fire wasn’t effective; it reflected off Mizuchi’s shroud, just like the lightning had. But it did teach me something. I was almost certain the fire deflected off the first layer of the shroud that it hit, rather than the third.

That was enough to gamble on.

I began to charge transference mana in my right hand.

Mizuchi ripped off Sera’s remaining wing, then hit her with a solid blow to the chest. Sera flew backward, her stone armor cracking from the force of the blow.

She was running out of time.

I ran closer, reaching into my bag again, and to the Jaden Box. “Retrieve: Luck Lily Extract.” A globe of liquid appeared. I left it in thebag.

Mizuchi flew after Sera, but Sera raised a wall of ice in Mizuchi’s path.

I ran to where Silverbrand had clattered to the ground, grabbing it off the floor.

Mizuchi stopped, growled, and took a deep breath. Tristan ran toward Mizuchi, raising Selys-Lyann.

Sera raised her hands and formed a dome of stone that encompassed Mizuchi entirely.

Now or never.

I hurled Silverbrand at my target. My aim was a little off.

That was an unacceptable result, so I blasted the hilt of the dagger with transference mana.

Inside the spire, my control over my mana was fantastic. Good enough, in fact, that it caught the pommel of the dagger and carried it straight into the anti-teleportation rune.

The rune fizzled and died.

Mizuchi’s breath of lightning annihilated the wall of stone surrounding her a moment later, burning straight through the wall of ice as well.

It hit Sera, too.

She flew backward on impact, smashing into the floor. Her armor crumbled, and she convulsed uncontrollably on the ground.

In that moment, while Mizuchi’s shroud was at its weakest, Tristan was ready. He hit her with a focused blast of ice from Selys-Lyann, which broke through her remaining shrouds and hit her, spreading across her body.

She took another breath.

Another one of her shrouds vanished, consumed as she converted it into mana to blast away the ice.

As the ice melted away, I closed in and made my next throw. Her lightning shroud was gone. Her fire shroud was gone.

The bottle froze as it passed through the ice layer of her shroud, then shattered on impact, drenching her with Luck Lily Extract.

Mizuchi had just a moment to look at me with confusion before I blasted her with transference mana, triggering the effects of the compound.

Teleportation to a random location. Mizuchi vanished.

And, for just a moment, the room was silent.

Tristan stared at the space where Mizuchi had been just a moment before. “What the resh was that?”

“Teleportation potion, basically. I don’t know where it sent her. It probablywon’t keep her long.” “We need to go.”

I nodded. I rushed to Sera.

She was still conscious, but barely. “Retrieve: Healing Potion.” I pressed it to her mouth, and she drank.

“Mm.” She coughed. “I...don’t think I can move.”

I picked her up and turned to Tristan. “Where can we go?”

Researcher ran out of the doorway where she’d been hiding, joining us. “This way.” Tristan led us to the double doors he’d emerged from. “InTenjin’s name, I unlock this sanctum.”

The doors swung open.

Researcher and I followed him inside. “In Tenjin’s name, I seal this sanctum.” The doors slammed shut behind us. “We should be safe for now.”

I set Sera down.

We all just sat there for a moment, breathing heavily.

“I can’t believe we just survived a fight with Mizuchi.” Tristan wiped the blood from his face on his shirt.

Sera chuckled, then coughed. “That’s two for us. You’re behind.”

Tristan laughed. “I suppose you’re right. I think I’ll let the two of you keep the advantage in that area.”

Sera turned to me. “So, she was weaker right after she took a breath, or something?”

I nodded. “She had multiple shrouds, each of a specific element. Sort of like how Professor Meltlake could turn her shroud into fire, but Mizuchi had several at once. Every time she drew in a breath, she was using the corresponding shroud to power it. The first time I hit her with a potion, she used her fire shroud to evaporate it before it could do much damage. I knew if I wanted to teleport her, I needed that fire shroud gone, and ideally the lightning as well.

“When she took the breath, it used up the lightning shroud. Then Tristanhit her, and she used her fire shroud up to get rid of the ice. After that, she still had multiple layers. I don’t know what they all were, but I think it hit the ice one first, so it froze. From there, I hit it with transference mana, which triggered the compound to teleport her.”

“That’s...actually pretty impressive,” Sera admitted. “Even if I’d figured out how her shroud worked, I probably would have just tried to wear it down and hit her hard while her defenses were weak. Your approach was better.”

“I don’t know if it was better,” Tristan cut in, “But it was definitely Corin’s style.”

I grinned.

Keras had been right.

I was much more effective when I was fighting like me, rather than trying to be someone else.

I turned to Tristan, an important question coming to mind and wiping away my moment of reflection. “How confident are you that she can’t find us in here?”

“She can’t get in. No one can, not without the right key.” Tristan patted his chest.

“This is Tenjin’s private sanctum, then?” Sera asked. “Indeed. Or, it was.” Tristan grinned.

“I don’t believe I should be in here.” Researcher said, glancing from side to side. “This is a forbidden place. Even the other visages are not allowed inside without Tenjin’s permission.”

I glanced down the hallway ahead. It was stark white walls of stone, and I could see a larger chamber ahead, but not a lot else from my vantage point. “How is it that you have access to this place?”

“I stole it.”

I raised an eyebrow. Researcher gasped.

“My attunement. It allows me to steal magic.”

Several things clicked together in my head at once. “You have the Sovereign attunement. That’s how you were able to absorb those spells that Mizuchi cast. It’s probably also how you incapacitated Tenjin in the first place.”

Tristan nodded. “Indeed. The first thing I did when we ambushed him was steal a bit of his power. Much like when you strengthen someone with your Arbiter attunement, however, I didn’t retain all of that. I did, however, manage to target and hold onto something specific — a mark on his body that he used as a key for accessing certain parts of the tower.

“That mark enabled me to access his sanctum, as well as control many of the functions of the spire that normally only he had access to. I’ve even been able to keep the other visages out of this room, at least for now.”

I glanced to Researcher, then back to Tristan. “I’m not sure you should be saying all this around her.”

Researcher frowned. “But I like knowing things.”

Tristan waved a hand dismissively. “It’s harmless. If this version of her is bound to Sera now, she’ll be loyal to her. And many of the actual Researchers already know what I’m up to, anyway. I have an arrangement with some of them.”

“An arrangement?” I asked.

“Not all of the monsters are exactly happy about being kept inside a tower for their entire lives, bred to be slaughtered by climbers or used at the visage’s whim.”

Researcher’s expression shifted to something inscrutable. “I suppose I’m lucky to be a copy that was allowed to be outside of the spire. Few are given such a chance.”

That explained a great deal about how Tristan was able to keep working within the spire in the way he had been — if there were monsters on his side, in addition to other Whispers, I could see how evading Katashi for as long as he had was more plausible. Maybe the monsters were even feeding Katashi false information.

Sera frowned. “If you had access to everything in the spire, why didn’t you just give yourself a whole pile of magical equipment?”

“I like the way you think. I did do that, although I couldn’t access everything. Because of a brand on my body, I can’t physically leave the spire...nor can I travel to certain other parts of the tower in person. That makes retrieving things difficult, because I’m forced to work through intermediaries.”

He pointed down the hallway. “I have some things in there that I wish I’d been wearing during that fight. I was only expecting to meet with Corin.

Normally, I’m untraceable while I’m in the sanctum.”

Tristan turned his head toward the floor, brushing his face again to clear another patch of blood off of it. He looked exhausted, and I didn’t blame him. “I didn’t think that anyone would be looking for me in the few minutes I was outside...but I hadn’t anticipated the possibility that someone had already divulged our plans. Researcher must have been watching us, and reported to Mizuchi the moment that I was vulnerable.”

“I’m sorry.” Researcher’s voice was a whisper.

I turned to her. “It’s okay. We know you didn’t mean any harm, and you helped us out in the end.”

Researcher nodded, but she appeared unconvinced.

Sera broke into a fit of coughing, and I turned toward her. “You okay?” “Yeah...” She raised a hand, coughing again. “Just used too much manaagain.”

I winced, remembering what happened last time she’d done something like that. “How bad is it?”

“Not as bad as last time. I was distributing it throughout my body, not just to my lungs. And most of the mana I was using was Vanniv’s, not mine. My everything hurts, but I don’t think I’ve caused myself more permanent damage this time. A few more minutes and I might have.”

That largely confirmed what I’d speculated about how she was using those powerful spells against Mizuchi — her new Invoker attunement seemed to let her draw power directly from her summoned monsters, rather than just casting their spells with her own mana supply.

If that was the case, she was vastly more powerful. I planned to ask her about how it worked later, but for the moment, I had more pressing concerns.

“We should have Sheridan look at you and make sure there isn’t any more scarring, just in case.”

Sera nodded. “Where is Sheridan, anyway? And the others?” She turned to Tristan, “And I suppose this might be a good time for me to learn what happened to my older brother?”

We took a while to fill her in. I told her about what had happened in the spire, and Tristan told her basically everything he’d told me.

I felt guilty that I didn’t have a way to send a message to Sheridan, Patrick, and Marissa to let them know that I was okay...but I hadn’t actually been gone for that long. Maybe an hour. They probably weren’t panicking too much.

“So, question.” I turned to Tristan. “Is this where you’re keeping Tenjin?”

Researcher’s eyes widened at that question, and she leaned forward expectantly.

“I...I’m sorry, Corin. I’m not going to tell you that. It’s been good to see you. And you as well, Sera.” He shook his head.

The look of disappointment on Researcher’s face was so sharp that it almost made me sad just looking at her. I couldn’t believe how expressive she was.

Tristan turned his head upward, looking wistful. “I can’t let you in on everything until I’m certain that we’re in agreement on how to proceed. And that’s going to take more than just saying a few words, if you say them at all. It’s going to take time.”

After everything I’d been through, it was hard to hear that, even if I couldn’t disagree with his reasoning.

I didn’t know if I could even believe the things he’d been telling me. The events of the last several months hadn’t exactly taught me to trust people.

We were silent for a time. “Is your eye okay?” I asked.

Tristan grimaced. “I don’t think so.”

“Do you have someone you can get to heal it properly?” Tristan shook his head.

“You should bring my friends here. Sheridan might be able to fix it.”

Tristan looked at me like I’d lost my mind. “You want me to put my fate in the hands of Sheridan Theas?”

I folded my arms. “They’ve healed both Sera and my injuries more than once.”

“Oh, I know they’re talented. But they work for Wydd, Corin. Do you understand?”

I blinked. “You think they’ve been spying on us?”

“Undoubtedly. If it was just Patrick with you, I would have brought him up to talk. I don’t know as much about the blonde girl, but she probably would have been fine. Sheridan Theas? There is zero chance they don’t have their own angle on this.”

“Okay, maybe. But we’re just talking about healing your eye.”

Tristan shook his head. “They could put a shard of bone through it just as easily, and remove a threat to their visage.”

I sighed. “Fine. Here.” I pulled the silver phoenix sigil off my pants. “This has shielding, regeneration, and mana regeneration functions. Put it on and activate it. I don’t think it’ll fix an eye, but...”

Tristan accepted it, pinning it to his shirt and activating it. “I’ll give it a try, at least. Thank you.”

“Consider it repayment for giving me Selys-Lyann...and about that. Can you tell me more about it?”

“Some other time. For the moment, I think it would be best if you return to your friends.”

I frowned. “Why? We’ve only just reunited. It’s been five years, Tristan.” “Because Mizuchi may not be able to reach us here, but she can almostcertainly reach them.”

I had a moment of panic as I processed that. “Wait. Sera, don’t you still have a bond with her?”

Sera blinked. “Mizuchi, I release you.” Then she took a breath. “There.

Gone. Thanks for reminding me. I’m barely conscious right now, I wouldn’t have thought of it for a while.”

I didn’t know if Mizuchi could have summoned Sera again immediately, but I was glad that we’d cut that possibility off before we found out the hard way.

I turned back to Tristan. “How quickly do you think she’ll find them?” “Without her bond to Researcher, it would take her longer to find someone,but she may already know where they are if Researcher told her earlier. It could be hours, or she could have already found them.”

“She knows where they were.” Researcher said. “I don’t know if she’s heading there or not. I can’t divine her from here.”

I stood up. “We need to go, then.” Tristan stood as well. “Follow me.”

He led us down the hallway and into the larger chamber up ahead. From a distance, I hadn’t understood the scale.

The room was circular, maybe a hundred feet across. But the real scale came from the height.

My gaze shifted upward, taking in the spiral stairways and ladders that connected the levels of the room. And as I continued to look upward, I realized I couldn’t see where it ended – there were dozens of levels above us.

When Tristan had mentioned a “sanctum”, I had pictured something like a personal quarters. A bedroom, a desk, maybe some kind of devices for monitoring the building.

I wasn’t thinking big enough.

Just on the level that we were standing, I could see dozens of things I wanted to run to and examine.

The outer wall of the room was ringed with doors, each of which had a reflective mirror-like panel to the side and a number above it.

Rings of metal were built into the floor, with each ring having lines of metal that led off to various devices and contraptions throughout the chamber. With my attunement active, I could see mana flowing within them, and I realized they were some kind of conduits for magical energy.

The devices themselves were myriad and wondrous. On the left side of the room, dozens of human-sized mana crystal were housed inside crystalline tubes, suspended in some kind of liquid. I’d never seen even a single mana crystal that large before. I couldn’t imagine the kinds of items they could power.

On the right side of the room were dozens of bookshelves, but rather than books, they contained more crystals, stored in labeled jars.

They’re memory crystals, I realized. They might be a more efficient means of storage for someone like Tenjin that can access them easily.

In the center of the room was a single titanic pillar filled with liquid, not unlike the one that had contained Selys-Lyann, but on a massively larger scale. I could see numerous runes etched into the surface and mana glimmering within the waters.

I could see multiple ways to reach the higher levels – stairways on each side of the room, and a few rune-activated platforms that looked like they might serve as elevators.

“...wow,” Researcher mumbled, her eyes widening. “Yeah,” was all I managed to reply.

“This way,” Tristan gestured, following the wall to the right.

“Are you sure we can’t stay here a little while?” Researcher asked. “I’d really like to know what that thing is. And that one. And...”

I completely agreed with her. Just seeing that place...I had so many questions.

I couldn’t stay. I knew that.

...But I wasn’t going to let Researcher be disappointed, just because I couldn’t stay myself. “Sera, can you re-summon Researcher later, even if we leave her in the spire?”

Sera nodded. “Sure, the type of contract we made supports that.” “Tristan, can she stay here for a bit? It would make her happy, and shemight be able to help you a bit while she’s here.”

Tristan sighed. “Fine, she can stay a little while. But I’m going to be very strict about what I give her access to.”

Researcher clapped her hands together, beaming. “Thank you! Thank you!”

I was happy that Tristan had accepted. Mostly for Researcher’s sake, because she was clearly thrilled.

But in truth? I wanted to know how much information she could gather that might be useful to the rest of us, too.

I leaned over and whispered to her, “Get me some notes on the giant crystals and the pillar if you can.”

I wished I had time to give her more detailed instructions, or to properly prioritize.

Researcher gave me a conspiratorial grin. “Of course!”

Her reply was a little too loud, spoiling any effect at secrecy, but Tristan didn’t seem to notice. He was walking quickly, until he finally stopped near a door.

“Okay. This is it.”

The door had a “21” over it. The floor number, maybe?He turned to the mirror-like panel next to it and ran a finger across it. An image appeared in the surface, showing a room from above.

I saw Marissa, Patrick, and Sheridan sitting in the center of the room,talking.

I breathed a sigh of relief when I realized Mizuchi wasn’t there.

“They seem safe. You should go to them now, before Mizuchi finds them, and leave the spire immediately.” Tristan shook his head. “I’m sorry I can’t talk to you longer. It’s been good to see you both.”

He extended a hand to me.

I felt several emotions converge there. Doubt. Fear. Relief. I clasped his hand. “I’m...glad you’re alive, Tristan.”

“Thanks.” He took a breath and pulled his hand away, reaching out to Sera. “Sera, it’s good to see you as well.”

Sera looked Tristan up and down, then frowned. “Yeah.” She didn’t reach for his hand. “Sure.”

Tristan put his hand back down. “Go on, you two. Given how things have been going, I suspect I’ll see you again soon enough.”

I wasn’t so certain about that.

Tristan opened the door. I could see a glimmering portal there. I gave Tristan one last look.

“Goodbye, Corin.” “Goodbye, Tristan.”

And I stepped through the door.

EPILOGUE – ANOTHER STEP FORWARDSheridan, Marissa, and Patrick were somewhat surprised when I appeared in the room.

They were more surprised Sera appeared a moment later.

I didn’t fill them in on the whole situation. Instead, I told them that we needed to leave the spire immediately, because Mizuchi was presumably going to be looking for us.

We got an immediate chorus of agreements.

I sent a message to Keras with my necklace and told him we were leaving the spire, and that he should meet us outside. He sounded a little disappointed, but he agreed.

We used one of the return bells and exited the spire. Keras did the same.

Then, with everyone else together, we headed back to the Theas household to talk.

Sheridan checked Sera over on the way and confirmed that Sera hadn’t done herself any more permanent damage, but advised that she’d strained her entire body with those invocations, and that she shouldn’t do it again.

Preferably ever.

When we arrived back at the manor, we gathered everyone together, including Derek and Elora, and filled them in on what had happened.

I was somewhat hesitant to say anything around Elora or Sheridan, since I knew they both most likely had their own agendas, but I was exhausted with keeping secrets. If they were going to be my allies, I wanted to treat themwith respect.

Elora couldn’t confirm anything Tristan had told us — she still had a brand on her neck, and it clearly had different restrictions than his did.

She did, however, confirm that she was still considered a part of his “Ascension” faction...she simply had fallen “out of touch” with most of their organization.

Meaning she was probably lying low and waiting to see how the infighting resolved itself, rather than risking herself further.

Derek was uncharacteristically silent throughout the discussion.

After we finished sharing what we’d learned, Sera and I went to talk alone in the bedroom I’d been assigned.

“So.” I sat down on the bed. Sera sat next to me. “You’ve got an ascended attunement, apparently?”

Sera nodded. “I didn’t even know for certain that was what it was until Mizuchi mentioned it. But I’ve been feeling a stronger connection to my summoned monsters while I’ve been recovering. After the ball, Vanniv and I started practicing with it, and I figured out I could draw a bunch of his mana into me all at once. It makes me a lot stronger. It’s a little scary, though.”

“Yeah, after what happened with the water, I don’t blame you for being cautious. But you do feel okay now?”

“Yeah. I think the attunement is built for doing that sort of thing. It was handling most of the burden of all that mana coming in...but I don’t think I’ll be able to do it often. When I first practiced with Vanniv, he said he thought it worked more like a Soulblade summon. The kind of thing you can’t do more than once every few weeks, or it gets dangerous.”

“Dangerous how?”

“It puts a lot of strain on both of us. It’s almost like we’re merging our mana together for a while. That could permanently alter how our mana works if we do it too much.”

“Makes sense.” Keras had mentioned something similar about not being able to use some of his abilities too often because of how they altered his mana. “Could you have done that with Seiryu?”

Sera shook her head. “Not a chance. It still costs some of my mana to try to do that invoking thing, just like summoning something does. I still don’t have enough mana to summon Seiryu, so I wouldn’t be able to invoke her, either.”

“What about using Vanniv’s mana to summon Seiryu?”

“It doesn’t work like that. When I’m invoking someone, I’m only able to cast their spells with their mana, not mine. It’s basically like I have all of their abilities, on top of my own, but I can’t mix them together freely. Not yet, anyway.”

“That’s still pretty incredible.”

Sera smiled. “No kidding. I wish I could do it more often.” She paused for a moment. “I still can’t believe we beat Mizuchi.”

“Well, we didn’t, really. We just teleported her off. And she was much weaker than the last time we fought her, if you didn’t notice.”

Sera nodded. “I did. The banishment spell was probably weakening her, and I think Tristan drained some of her mana with his attunement while they were grappling with each other.”

I hadn’t actually noticed that last part, but it certainly made sense. It also led me to a more awkward, and more important, discussion. “What’s your take on the situation with Tristan?” I asked.

“I don’t trust him.” Sera shook her head. “But I don’t know what we should do.”

I bobbed my head in agreement. “I feel the same way. But I want to trust him. He’s our brother.”

Sera winced when I said that. “...I suppose he is.”

I frowned. “Is there something you’re not telling me?”

Sera sighed. “I told you before. Tristan... he didn’t always treat me well. You always idolized him, but he’s not... he’s not the perfect person you think he is.”

“I...are you saying he... He didn’t touch you, did he?”

She shook her head vehemently. “Not in the way you’re thinking.”

That was good, because if he had, I probably would have gone straight back to the spire to have a very different conversation.

“He was cruel, Corin.” She wiped at her eyes. “There’s a lot of your father in him. More than I think you realize.”

I didn’t want to think about the implications of that. “I’m sorry, Sera. Is there something...what do you want me to do?”

She shrugged a shoulder. “I know how much Tristan means to you. Butwhen you’re considering whether or not you trust him...just remember that there’s another side to him that he doesn’t show around you.”

“I’ll try.” I put a hand on hers. “And for what it’s worth? I’m not going to make any more big decisions without you. I mean, barring cases when we’re in completely different locations and—”

“I know what you meant, Corin.” She paused, then smiled and squeezed my hand. “Thank you, that means a lot.”

After that, we chatted a little longer, then washed up and went to sleep in the same room.

In the morning, I had a new message in my book. Sera and I read it together.

Dear Brother,I regret that our meeting was so brief.

As a result, I was not able to share as much as I wished with you, and I failed to ask you for a direct answer to an important question.

You know my mission now. It will not be an easy one.

My resources are thin, and my allies are few. My enemies are numerous and powerful.

I know that you cannot entirely trust me. That is something that will take time and knowledge.

But, if you are willing, I could use your help.

I have contacts in Caelford working on something important. Given what you already know, I’m certain you can guess what field of study it pertains to. I need someone I can trust to go and work with them. Someone who isn’t known to be a member of my organization.

Will you join my cause, and help give humanity the power that it needs to stand among the gods?I await your answer.

-Tristan CadenceI spoke with Sera for a time. Debated. Considered. Analyzed. In the end, I wrote a single word in reply.

Yes.

***I had a few visits to make before I left the country.

The first was the easiest. Cecily had left House Theas and gone home, but her family didn’t live far away.

I knocked on the door.

It was her sister, Yunika Lambert, that answered.

Her eyes widened a little when she saw me. “Corin Cadence?” She blinked. “It’s been a long time...what brings you here?”

“I was here to see Cecily, actually. But I think there are a few things you should know, too.”

Yunika nodded. “Come inside.” I followed Yunika in.

She waved. “I think she’s in her room. I have questions for you, but I think you should probably talk to Cecily first.”

I found my way to Cecily’s door and hesitated.

It had been so easy just to walk in here and visit her. Why had I waited this long?Why was my hand trembling?People were so much more terrifying than monsters. I knocked softly on the door.

“Who is it?”

I hesitated again.

After a moment, I managed, “It’s Corin.”

I heard footsteps running for the door. She flung the door open.

I braced myself as she threw her arms around me. “Corin! You’re okay!” “...Yeah, I’m fine.”

She buried her head in my shoulder. “Thank the goddess... I... I was so worried you wouldn’t come back.”

I awkwardly pat her on the back. “I’m okay. It’s okay now.” I was still terrible at this sort of thing.

But as much as I didn’t like being touched	there was somethingimportant about the fact that she’d worried about me.

That she’d cared.

I took a breath and then pulled her just a little bit closer. “It’s going to be okay.”

I wasn’t sure that I believed that, but on occasion, it felt good to pretend.

***I spent some time telling Cecily about what had happened in the spire.

I didn’t share every single detail. I didn’t know how secure their house was.

But I did confirm that I’d found Tristan. That he was really alive in there.

Cecily smiled, brushing her eyes. “I’m so happy for you. I’m sure Yunika will be thrilled, too. Do you know when she’ll get to see him again?”

I shook my head. “	I think it might be a while.”

“That’s unfortunate.” Cecily turned her head away. “But I know she’ll wait as long as it takes.”

I didn’t know what to say to that, so I changed the topic. “I have a little something for you.”

Cecily blinked. “A souvenir, perhaps?”

I shook my head. “No, not something from the spire. I’ll try to remember that next time.”

I pulled the mana watch out of my bag and handed it to her. I’d fixed it earlier in the day. “You said you liked this when you saw it at the party. I thought you might want it.”

It was true that I thought she’d like the watch, but there was another reason I was giving it to her.

It was my way of getting telling myself that I needed to stop using it as a crutch.

If I wanted to grow stronger, I needed to stop letting my fear restrict my methods of training.

She accepted the watch with a grin. “Thank you! It’s a lovely gift. I’m afraid I don’t have anything ready for you right now, but...”

I shook my head. “Actually, if you don’t mind, I have a rather large favor to ask for.”

“Would you like to come with me on an adventure?”

***Cecily agreed to come with us to Caelford, of course.

I couldn’t explain why I was so excited that she accepted.

Maybe I just wanted another Enchanter’s opinions on my research. A peer that I could share my excitement with. Someone who might understand bits of artificial attunement theory that could work with me on new ideas and tests.

Perhaps she represented a tie to a brighter spot in my past, something I wished I’d been able to hold onto a little tighter.

But maybe there was a bit more to it than that.

After that, we went and found Yunika, and told her a bit about what had happened. Yunika was clearly heartbroken that Tristan hadn’t left the spire with me, but she still seemed pleased to know that he was alive and well.

I made certain to mention that Tristan was clearly thinking of her, too.

With that finished, I had another visit to make that I wasn’t looking forward to quite as much.

***I didn’t like visiting the hospital.

It was especially difficult when I didn’t even know if the person I was visiting was going to be alive.

Or if she was alive...I was a little worried that she hated me.

It didn’t take long to verify the first part. “Second floor, room 208.” I knocked on the door.

“Didn’t you read the sign? It says clearly, ‘no solicitors’.”

There was no such sign, nor were solicitors likely to be a problem at thehospital.

I rolled my eyes.

At least Professor Vellum’s sense of humor was intact. “It’s Corin.”

There was a brief pause. “...Ah, well, then. What are you waiting for, boy?Come in.”

I opened the door and stepped inside.

I expected Professor Vellum to be in a hospital bed, but I found her sitting back in a large chair, covered in an absolutely absurd pile of blankets. She set down a book on the table next to her as I walked in.

“Hmpf. No flowers? What sort of cheapskate are you?”

I chuckled and shut the door. “I figured you’d want something with a more practical application.”

“What, so you smuggled me some liquor, then? I could use enough to knock myself out for about a week.”

I gave her a shrug. “No, but this should keep you busy for a while.” I set a stack of papers on the desk next to her.

She picked up the first page. “Application for the patent and distribution of	” Vellum turned her head to me. “You brought me incomplete patentapplications as a gift?”

“Well, you do have plenty of free time on your hands. And since our last patent didn’t go through, I figured.”

“You are the worst hospital visitor I have ever encountered. And that’s impressive, because I’m including doctors on that list, and they have needles.”

I laughed. “You’ll be happier when you read through and see what I’m offering.”

“I sincerely doubt that.”

I smiled. “How many people do you know that can make mana regeneration items?”

Vellum’s eyes narrowed at me, then she glanced back to the papers. “Hmm.” She lifted up the stack, paging through briefly. “You want to patent something that only works when you make it?”

“It’s not literally something that only I can make. It’s just that, like you taught me, purifying magic is normally a horrendously inefficient process. Now, I’m not a patent lawyer, but from what I could tell from a cursory trip to the patent office... I don’t think anyone has ever bothered to patent mana regeneration items in general. People do make them, but they’re so rare and inefficient that no one is bothering with securing the rights. It currently has little value, but...”

“You think it will be valuable in the future.”

That was an understatement. “Once artificial attunements are more widespread, any number of people could have the same combination of attunements that I do. When that happens, it will be much easier to make mana regeneration items like mine. And I can already tell you that they’re extremely useful.”

Vellum nodded. “Very well. And why are you bothering to involve me?You’ve clearly gone through most the research process already.”

I shrugged. “I have no experience with filing patents, and I could use your expertise.” I hesitated, glancing away.

“And?”

“...And as something of an apology.”

“For what, boy? You aren’t the only one I rescued at the ball, you know.”

I shook my head. “I’m grateful for that, of course...but that’s not what I’m talking about.”

“Oh?”

“When I took your final exam...I wasn’t exactly honest with you. I, uh, didn’t really make a separate anchor for the teleportation necklace. And I uh, sort of implied that I had?”

Vellum broke into laughter, so hard that she ended up covering her face. “My dear boy, that was obvious. When I asked you about how the anchor worked, that was a jab. I was telling you that I knew you hadn’t made a proper anchor for it.” She laughed again, shaking her head. “You’re fine, dear. That was already reflected in your grade.”

“...It was?”

Vellum nodded. “The more important question is...did you fix it?” I hesitated. “Yes, but—”

“Does it work now?”

“Yeah.”

“Good. Now, don’t make the same mistake again. Moving an enchantment from one item to another might seem simpler than making a new item from scratch, but there are additional layers of complexity that it’s easy to forget about.”

“I understand.”

“No, you don’t. Not properly.” She set down the papers and waved to another nearby chair. “Take a seat. It’s time for your lesson.”

I took a seat and listened attentively to my mentor’s advice.

***There was one last trip to make before I left town. No, not to Magnus Cadence.

He’d get a letter if he was lucky.

I pushed my way into the doors of the Climber’s Court. It was busy that day, with customers gathered around Lars as he told a story.

“...The wind lashed about us as we climbed toward the Wind Temple. And when I say ‘lashed’, I mean like a damn scythe. The living whirlwinds would tear you apart if they blew past you. But dangerous as they were, they weren’t the real problem. The razor winds had been called by Raizo, the wielder of the Cloudcutter.”

He paused, spreading his hands wide for dramatic effect, “And Raizo had a score to settle with me.”

The customers were so distracted that I don’t think they even notice me enter, but Lars did. “Corin, lad! Come here and listen. I’m just getting to the best part!”

I came over and listened to his story, leaning against a nearby counter to listen.

He drew us in with his story of swords and monsters, of legendary magic and heroes lost.

And then, when his story was done, he reached behind the counter. “And here it is. A fragment of the Prime Crystal of Air itself, taken fromthat last battle in the Wind Temple.”

He lifted the glimmering crystal, which glowed with brilliant light even without my attunement active.

“One of my most precious possessions. A relic of times long lost, guarded by the tengu for centuries, and earned through battles hard-fought and won.”

He closed his eyes in a moment of solemnity, nodding to himself. “Bidding begins at five hundred and eighty gold pieces.”

And with that, the auction began.

I didn’t leave that night with a piece of legendary crystal, or any other item from that shop.

But after the last customer left, and the night was dark, he gave me something more important when I said my goodbyes.

“Aw, leavin, are ye? That’s a shame. Ye might not be my highest payin’ customer, but yer still a good one.”

I didn’t know what to say to that, so I said nothing.

“Don’t look so sad, lad.” Lars smiled. “I’ll still be here when you get back.”

***I never had a chance to say goodbye to Derek. He’d disappeared right around the same time I’d entered the spire. Elora assured me that he simply did this on occasion, and that he’d be fine.

I left him a short note thanking him for everything, and Elora assured me that she’d make sure it got to him.

I still didn’t trust Elora in general, but I figured I could trust her with that. While I was writing letters, though, I did write one to my mother.

Mother,I’ve discovered a bit of what happened in the spire. I’m heading out of the country for a while.

I considered coming to you, but I think this is for the best. I am safe. Sera will be with me.

And so will Patrick. He’s one of my retainers now, if you haven’t heard. I hope that you’re safe and well in Dalenos.

We do have much to discuss. I hope you will be back in Valia by the time Ireturn.

Your Son,-CorinI considered explaining that I’d met with Tristan, but I couldn’t trust that the letter would reach my mother without being compromised by someone else. The risks were too high.

And she already knew he was alive.

That fact still weighed heavily on me, but I tried not to think about it too much.

Was I being a hypocrite by not telling my father what I knew? Absolutely.

But after everything Magnus Cadence had done, I couldn’t bring myself to care.

With my final business completed, I met with my friends. Sera, Patrick, and Marissa – my closest companions.

Keras, my new swordsmanship teacher. And finally Cecily.

I didn’t really know what she was to me yet, but I did look forward to finding out.

With them, I boarded the train to Caelford.

The trip across the continent would take about two weeks. And so, those five friends persuaded me to tell this story. I agreed under a few conditions.

First, they had to understand that I was going from memory, and that not every detail of every conversation was going to be perfectly accurate.

It was possible that I might embellish a few little bits and pieces here and there.

Second, they’d have to keep the story to themselves. I didn’t want this information spreading to anyone else without a chance for me to approve whoever we were going to share it with. Trust still wasn’t easy for me.

Third, I wasn’t going to omit bits for anyone. That meant there were going to be a few pieces of the story that might be a little embarrassing to me, or to others.

So, uh, sorry about telling everyone about when you asked Sera out, Patrick.

After that, though, there was one last condition. This story was offered as a trade.

Sera, you’re going to need to tell us at some point how you walked out of your Judgment the ability to summon a god beast.

But first?Keras, it’s your turn to tell us a story.

Tell us about Dawnbringer and the Six Sacred Swords.

THE ENDAPPENDIX I – ATTUNEMENT MARK LEVELSFrom a Lesson by Professor Vestan, Introductory Runes ClassAttunement marks physically change when you reach an appropriate mana threshold.

Two factors make this obvious; one, the mark will physically change, and two, your aura will change in color.

Of course, not everyone can perceive aura colors. This is an advantage that Enchanters and Diviners — as well as their analogues in other countries — have early on. It is only at higher attunement levels that other attuned begin to detect auras, and even then, some never truly see them.

The aura colors follow the colors of the rainbow. Locally, we refer to these by gemstone names — Quartz representing clear, Carnelian being red, Sunstone being orange, and so on.

Some other nations use other systems; either simply referring to the name of the color itself, or, in Edria’s case, ignoring it entirely and referring to levels by number. This last case is most likely because Edria has so few attuned that see aura colors; thus, a numeric scheme for progression seems more logical to them.

These level thresholds are not purely a visual change, however. They represent a clear change in your capabilities. Most teachers like to talk about these in generalities — that you will gain a shroud at Carnelian, for example. In truth, the abilities you earn at each attunement level vary considerably from attunement to attunement. There are general rules, but it’s important to remember that there are also exceptions.

Today, we’ll be working on memorizing the basic runes for each attunement at their first few levels. Please do keep in mind, however, that attunement marks have variations. The ones we’ll be discussing here are the current basic marks for your generation. We’ll discuss what that means ingreater detail later this year.

Diviner AttunementGuardian AttunementElementalist AttunementEnchanter AttunementMender AttunementShadow AttunementShaper AttunementSummoner AttunementAPPENDIX II – ATTUNEMENT MARK VARIATIONSFrom a Lesson by Professor Meltlake, Magic Theory ClassAttunements theory is constantly being updated. This is, at least in part, because attunements themselves are always changing.

I don’t mean that just in terms of an individual person’s attunement growing stronger — although that’s certainly important, and we’ll get to details on that later on.

The first factor of change that I’m mentioning is magical specializations. Different attuned naturally gravitate toward specific types of magic, and as they improve, their attunement subtly changes. The attunement adapts to generate a larger amount of that mana type in the body, which allows the attuned to use it more easily. In extreme cases, this can cause the mark itself to change. In my case, for example, I am highly specialized in fire magic, and my attunement mark reflects this by having a distinct fire modification.

The other change is even more interesting. The goddess — or, perhaps the visages — are constantly updating the design and functions of types of attunements. My own Elementalist mark is subtly different from Patrick’s, because he has a more recent iteration of the mark than my own.

Here’s a standard Elementalist mark, like Patrick’s.

This is what my own mark looks like.

Similarly, my father’s mark is different from either of ours, because he has an earlier mark. His looks like this.

Now, a portion of these changes are due to the attunement levels being different, but some changes are a legacy of the age in which the attunements were given.

Note the central line; in my father’s generation, this was longer, and had a tail. That is absent in both Patrick’s variant and my own.

Similarly, the line that crosses through the center is somewhat different in all three versions.

We refer to these different versions of each attunement as “attunement generations”. Since we began recording these changes about one hundred and seventy years ago, there have been fifteen different revisions to each attunement that have resulted in clear visible changes. The core symbol for each attunement has remained similar, but the outlying marks have changed substantially over time. Thus, we can assume that a new attunement generation occurs roughly once every ten years, give or take a few.

There is also a strong possibility that there have been other, subtler changes that have not resulted in a visual difference in each attunement.

You’re probably wondering why attunements are being changed. The answer is simple — the goddess is clearly still improving them. While the goddess is a being of tremendous power and knowledge that vastly outstrips our own, she is not all-knowing, and she is still capable of learning and improving.

What are some of these improvements, you might ask?Well, for one thing, our modern attunements are demonstrably better at converting mana between different types than older generations. A hundred years ago, converting enough mana for a spell took several minutes, and then the attunement “held” that converted mana in the desired state until it was used. This meant you essentially had to ration out all the types of mana you wanted to use before going into a dangerous situation, rather than being able to convert mana freely like you can now.

Another major improvement? Shrouds.

Attunements have always caused some degree of mana to leak out, creating an aura...but that aura didn’t always have any sort of useful function.

The very first recorded improvement to attunements — and the one that got us to start recording changes — was the implementation of the “defensive shroud” function, which manipulates the excess essence around an attuned into the type of barrier we use it for today. Prior to that, all that additional mana was simply wasted.

Earlier versions of the defensive shroud had differences, too. Initially, only Citrine and higher level attuned had access to that shroud. It’s theorized that this is because earlier shroud-generation functions were less efficient, and required more of a shroud to have any use. It’s also possible that earlier versions required a larger amount of mana to be drawn from the attunement to make them function.

You might be surprised by that last part, but yes, your attunement’s basic functions do use up a bit of your mana at all times. When we measure your safe mana usage, that’s already taken into account. The shroud is one of these autonomous functions, but there are other basic ones as well.

The attunement is constantly monitoring the amount of mana in each part of your body, and that function requires some mana. The function that converts some of your mana also requires mana. Even the attunement functions that help regulate the flow of mana in your body require a little bit of your mana in order to work.

For the Enchanters in the class, this might sound like an attunement is much like a magical item. You’re not wrong. In fact, attunements function almost identically to magical items — they’re just a thousand times more complex than a typical item. Your attunement rune replicates the functions of dozens, if not hundreds, of different types of enchantments.

Artificial attunements, then, were created by understanding each of these functions and learning to replicate them. We’re still not perfect at making attunements ourselves — but like the goddess herself, we’re always learning.

APPENDIX III – CHARACTERS AND TERMSFrom Corin’s class notesHouse Cadence:Magnus Cadence – Head of House Cadence, father of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Presumably also the father of Sera Cadence.

Laura Lyran – Head of House Lyran, mother of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Emerald-level attuned with the Swordmaster and Elementalist attunements. Member of Valia’s Council of Lords.

Tristan Cadence – Elder son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Disappeared into the Serpent Tower during his Judgment. Presumed deceased.

Corin Cadence – Younger son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Presumptive heir to both houses after Tristan’s disappearance. Earned an Enchanter attunement in the spire.

Was given a mysterious new attunement by Katashi, the Visage of Valor.

Sera Cadence – Previously known as Sera Shard, Sera Cadence was legitimized by Magnus Cadence after passing her Attunement exam. She is presumed to be a bastard child of Magnus Cadence. After being legitimized, she is now a potential heir to the house. She is the same age as Corin and has a Summoner attunement.

University Staff:Chancellor Wallace – In charge of all university activities.

Lieutenant Commander Jack Bennet – Vice Chancellor, former military commander.

Professors:Professor Edlyn – Assisted with new student orientation.

Teaches Enchanting class.

Professor Ceridan – In charge of Tiger Class. Teaches Elementalists.

Professor Lyras Orden – In charge of Serpent Class. Has a mysterious connection with The Voice of the Tower.

Professor Vellum – Teaches classes on permanent enchantments. Serves as Corin’s mentor for most enchanting- related studies.

Professor Conway – Teaches Attunements class.

Lord Jonathan Teft – In charge of Hydra Class. Teaches dueling.

Doctor Tordrin – In charge of Phoenix Class.

Professor Meltlake – General Magic Theory class. Legendary Elementalist.

Professor Vanway – Teacher for an unknown class. Not one of Corin’s professors.

Sir Tanath – A member of the Soaring Wings, and a Summoner. One of Marissa’s teachers.

Professor Vestan – Corin’s Introductory Runes teacher.

Students:Patrick Wayland – One of Corin’s childhood friends, now his first retainer. An Elementalist and magical weapon enthusiast.

Jin Dalen – A mysterious foreign student from East Edria with a Sunstone-level Mesmer attunement. His family is sworn to House Dalen, the former ruling house of East Edria from thedays before it was under Edrian rule. He was badly injured after fighting against Corin in the Serpent Spire, but escaped using Corin’s return bell.

Marissa Callahan – One of Corin’s classmates. Usually called “Mara” by her friends. Guardian.

Roland Royce – One of Sera’s friends, former friend of Tristan’s.

Cecily Lambert – The younger sister of Yunika Lambert. One of Corin’s closest childhood companions.

Curtis Maddock – Dorm chief for Corin’s dorm.

Lisa Stone – Former classmate from Corin’s childhood.

Jordan Jaldin – A second-year student that supervises one of the teams for the final exams.

Katherine Winters – A second-year student that supervises Corin’s team for the final exams. Goes by Kathy.

Other People:Lars Mantrake – Shopkeeper for the Climber’s Court, a magic item shop. As a former climber, he has many stories of the spires, almost half of which are probably true.

Keras Selyrian – Mysterious swordsman that Corin first encounters during his Judgment. Currently serving as Corin’s bodyguard in order to get into the good graces of Katashi, the Visage of Valor.

Echion – Child with an unusual mark across his forehead.

Corin first meets Echion during his Judgment.

Vera Corrington – Tower explorer that Corin first encounters during his Judgment.

Aloras Corrington – Automotive engineer. Vera’s brother.

Derek Hartigan – Heir to House Hartigan, an ancient noble house. Has an Emerald-level Soulblade attunement.

Tavare – Derek’s Summoned blade elemental.

Delsys – Derek’s Summoned flame/wind elemental.

Elora Theas – Heir to House Theas, an ancient noble house.

Extremely powerful Summoner.

Sheridan Theas – Elora Theas’ sibling, and a follower of Wydd. Wields the restricted “Necromancer” attunement, but specializes in healing. Derek usually refers to them by the nickname “Deni”.

Vanniv – A summoned karvensi. Both Elora and Sera have contracts with Vanniv.

Researcher – A knowledge elemental that resides in the restricted section of the Divinatory.

Yunika Lambert – Cecily Lambert’s older sister, and Tristan’s former fiancée.

Meredith Hawkins – A historical figure who supposedly escaped one of the spires after several years of being trapped inside. Commonly believed to be a con artist.

Johannes Edington – An academic who attempted to enter a Judgment and stay inside as long as possible in order to preserve memories of what the rooms looked like. Emerged a few months later and published a paper on his findings.

Visages:Katashi – Visage of Valor, patron Visage of Dalenos, where he is a central figure in their government.

Melkyr – Visage of Resilience, patron Visage of Edria.

Ferras – Visage of Creation, patron Visage of Caelford.

Tenjin – Visage of Inspiration, patron Visage of Valia. Currently missing.

Kerivas – Visage of Law, second patron Visage of Edria.

Wydd – Visage of Forbidden Knowledge. Location unknown. Often depicted as a trickster or shapeshifter.

God Beasts:Genbu, the God Tortoise – God Beast of Dalenos.

Seiryu, the God Serpent – God Beast of Valia.

Orochi , the God Hydra - God Beast of Edria.

Byakko, the God Tiger - God Beast of Caelford.

Suzaku, the God Phoenix – God Beast of East Edria.

Arachne, the God Spider – God Beast of (????)God Beast Children:Mizuchi – Deadly serpent, called “Hero’s End”. Child of Seiryu. Believed to be virtually invulnerable.

Other Powers:The Tyrant in Gold – A divine being that is antithetical to Selys, and believed to be comparable to her in power. The scriptures teach that he is in control of the entire world outside of Kaldwyn.

Saffron – A child of the Tyrant in Gold. Tremendously powerful, most likely on a similar level to Mizuchi.

Major Nations:Valia – Nation on the eastern coast of the continent of Kaldwyn. Home to the Serpent Tower and the Lorian Heights Academy.

Edria – Imperialistic southern nation. Conquered Kelridge during the Six Years War and nearly conquered Valia as well.

Caelford – Technologically advanced nation on the western coast of the continent. Allied with Valia.

Dalenos – Theocracy; covers most of the northern side of the continent.

Kelridge – A territory that was a part of Dalenos prior to the Six Years War. Conquered by Edria and now known as East Edria.

Days of the Week:OrsayKyrsday 	Wainsday 	FersdayVasdayWyddsayACKNLOWEDGMENETSThe title of the first Arcane Ascension book, Sufficiently Advanced Magic, is a homage to Arthur C. Clarke’s Third Law, “Any sufficiently advancedtechnology is indistinguishable from magic.”

The title of this book, On the Shoulders of Titans, is a reference to the quote, “If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants.”

This is most famously attributed to Sir Isaac Newton, though variations of the quote predate him.

In the context of this story, the quote is representing the generations of researchers building from the knowledge of the past, ultimately resulting indevelopments like artificial attunements.

Corin Cadence owes his existence to the “Cobalt Nightmares” role-playing game campaign by Bernard Hansel, Justin Green, Danielle Collins, andnumerous other game masters and staff. While the Corin in this novel differs significantly from the character in that game world, playing “Corin Page” is what gave me the first hints of inspiration for this book.

Similarly, Sera Shard/Sera Cadence was inspired by her analogue in Cobalt Nightmares, played by Jess Richards.

Sir Tanath is a cameo for one of my readers, Charles DeGregorio. I hope my brief depiction honored his character.

As always, my beta readers were essential in improving the quality of this manuscript. My beta readers included Sean Anderson, Ari Barzilai, Brittany Chhutani, Steven Ericksen, Ira Ham, Brian Heins, Jean, JohnFindlay, C.W. Fox, Jacob Fullmer, Gereon Hinz, Domagoj Kurmaić, Josh Kutterer, Rachel Noel, Jess Richards, Bruce Rowe, Christine Rowe, Jay Taylor, and Chris Zamora.

Much of my inspiration for this work came from web serials such asMother of Learning by nobody103, Worm by Wildbow, and Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality by Eliezer Yudkowsky.

Another layer of my inspiration came from JRPGs such as Final Fantasy, Tower of Druaga, Azure Dreams, Lufia 2: Rise of the Sinistrals, Ys, andBravely Default. In specific, the massive towers owe much of their existence to the earlier JRPGs on the list, and the idea of building a magic system around character classes was largely inspired by Bravely Default. While many earlier JRPGs had “job class” systems, Bravely Default worked character classes into their story — and that’s something I wanted to expand on further.

I’d like to thank the many readers over on my blog for their encouragements and suggestions, especially during the period of time I wasdebating many title options.

Finally, thanks to the community over on Reddit’s /r/fantasy, especially asuraemulator, Green0Photon, Jadeyard, and the other users that took the timeto give me feedback on my earlier works.

SIMILAR WORKSI’m often asked for recommendations for books similar to Sufficiently Advanced Magic.

If you’re looking for another magical school story with a protagonist that does a lot of research into how magic works, I would recommend the web serial Mother of Learning.

If you’re looking for another book with a lot of anime-flavored combat scenes, I’d recommend the Cradle series by Will Wight.

If you’re looking for more books with strong RPG inspiration, there are a couple up-and-coming genre labels to look for.

“LitRPGs” tend to literally take place in a video game, or in a world that has overt RPG mechanics, such as character classes and levels. Some classic examples include the .Hack series and Dream Park by Larry Niven and Steven Barnes. If you’re looking for one of these, I’d recommend Ascend Online by Luke Chmilenko.

There are a number of places to find great LitRPG recommendations. For example, there’s a large LitRPG Facebook group that can be found here. There is also a LitRPG subreddit, which can be found here.

“GameLit” is a slightly broader genre that includes game inspired fiction in general. Ready Player One by Ernest Cline would be a good example of this.

If you’re looking for an online community for more GameLit recommendations, you may want to look at GameLit Society group. There’s also a more general GameLit group. There’s also a GameLit subreddit, which can be found here.

A NOTE FROM THE AUTHORThe next Arcane Ascension book will be a side story/prequel from Keras’ perspective, as the end of this book implied.

It will not be listed as Arcane Ascension Book 3, because it doesn’t come afterward chronologically. Instead, it will be listed as the first book of a new Keras-specific series. The current tentative book title is Six Sacred Swords. Idon’t have a series title just yet.

Six Sacred Swords will touch on story elements that are related to this story, like the Children of the Tyrant and the titular swords, but it takes place many years earlier and most of the cast will be different (aside from a few cameos and surprises). It will also be the book where we start to see major crossover elements from my War of Broken Mirrors, for those people who arereading my other series.

If you liked reading about Keras in this book, I’d recommend checking out Six Sacred Swords when it comes out. If you’re not particularly interested in Keras, however, you should be fine to skip it and just wait for the next “main”

Arcane Ascension book.

Because Six Sacred Swords is next in this series, and I’m also going to be finishing the third book in the War of Broken Mirrors series before I even write that, it will most likely be at least two years before Arcane AscensionBook 3 comes out. (So, roughly March or April of 2020, possibly later.)That break will give me more time to come up with more awesome ideas, though, and I suspect it will end up being the best book in the series so far asa result. Maybe. Hopefully.

Thank you all for reading this book. I hope you enjoyed it!And if you’re interested in a little sneak peek at Six Sacred Swords?There’s one just ahead.

