CHAPTER XXIII – CLIMBER



“I...can’t believe I’m going to the spire.” Researcher was practically bouncing with excitement. She was walking next to me, but I use the term “walking” loosely, because her feet never quite touched the ground.

The bracer of mana regeneration shined brightly on her right wrist. I was glad it actually fit her. I hadn’t thought to check the fit in advance.

I’d given her one other item after some consideration — my school-issued shield sigil. She didn’t have a shroud to protect her, and I knew first-hand that anyone’s chances of surviving in the tower without a barrier were minimal.

I had the materials to make another silver phoenix sigil for her, but I hadn’t thought about it in advance. If we ended up spending several days in the spire— which was a real possibility — I planned to make her one as soon as possible.

I went to meet up with the others just outside the Climber’s Gate like we’d planned. I expected that part to be relatively straightforward, but I’d forgotten a minute detail.

Researcher froze when she saw Keras in the distance.

In that moment, I remembered what had happened the last time an elemental had seen him.

She trembled. For a moment, I thought she was going to bolt in the opposite direction.

She ran straight at him instead.

“Who are you? What are you? What’s that mask? How are you making your shroud do that?”

Keras took a step back, eyes widening, and lifted his hands in a warding gesture. “I, uh, hi. You can call me Keras.”

“But that’s not your name, is it? You’re not a person! But you’re not a summoned monster, either.” Researcher didn’t slow down until she was inches from running into him. When she finally did, she stood up on her toes, bringing her face so close to his that her nose was almost touching his mask.

I walked over, trying not to show how amused I was by Keras’ obvious discomfort.

Keras tilted his head down. “That’s complicated...and a bit of a secret.” Researcher’s shoulders slumped. “But I want to know.”

Keras sighed. “You’re a knowledge elemental, aren’t you?”

“Oh! Yes.” She nodded vehemently. “Forgive me for failing to introduce myself. I’m Researcher 437-C. It’s a pleasure to meet you.”

“Right.” Keras took a step back. “Knowledge is your sustenance, isn’t it?” “Well, technically I can subsist by converting gray mana into mental mana,but that’s so...disappointing.” She looked away from him. She was usually so professional that seeing this reaction was jarring, but it was kind of endearing.

Do elementals have stronger emotional responses than humans? Tavare shifted their behaviors rapidly, too, and Researcher had a similar shift in approach when I told her I was an Arbiter...

Or maybe I’m just the unusual one. A lot of humans seem to experience emotions more intensely than I do, too.

Keras sighed. “I can’t tell you everything you want to know right now, but...” He leaned down and whispered something in her ear.

Researcher’s eyes widened, almost comically. “That...is so amazing! I mean, how would that even work? Are you coming with us into the spire?”

“I should be, yes.”

“Amazing...” Researcher turned back to me. “I am so excited.”

Elora walked over to the rest of us. “Well, this is all quite fascinating, but I’d like to be gone as quickly as possible. Can you all please head to the spire?”

I raised an eyebrow. “I thought you were teleporting us in.”

“In a sense. I’m opening one of the gates and activating it to lead toward a specific destination. Simple teleportation would never get through the spire’sdefenses.”

I frowned. That wasn’t what it had sounded like when she’d described before, but she had been pretty vague.

Elora led the group of us toward an unguarded section of the spire, then reached into a pouch at her hip and pulled out what looked like a comically large crystalline key. It was vaguely shaped like a serpent, complete with fangs serving as the tines of the key.

I stared at it for a second before recognition dawned on me.

That’s like the key we found last time we visited the tower. It’s slightly different in shape, but it’s a serpentine and made of crystal.

Does that mean the other key would have allowed for a secret entrance into the spire, too?I wished I’d kept it, but Orden had taken the key and never given it back to us. Maybe she knew.

A section of the wall glimmered and vanished.

There was a glowing magical barrier behind that section of wall. Beyond that, I could see only darkness.

“Servants of the Spire, I beseech you to open the way. I am Elora, of the House of Theas, bound by my pact to serve.”

She reached forward and touched the barrier with a bare hand. It vanished. Then there was just blackness ahead of us.

Elora turned to the group. “I wish you luck and safety. If things don’t go as planned, I recommend you leave immediately. There are still other options.”

We exchanged a few goodbyes.

And with that taken care of, the six of us entered the tower.

There was the usual moment of disorientation as I stepped through the gate, then the dysphoria of seeing entirely new surroundings.

And when I say entirely new, I mean that in the literal sense.

We’d gone through the same entrance as last time, but this was far from the same destination.

I knew, even at a glance, that something had gone wrong. Or, at least, not quite the way I’d expected.

We were not on the first floor.

And worse than that?We weren’t all in the same place.

***Four of us stood in a square chamber wrought from brown stone. Massive tree roots broke through the floors in several locations, and overgrowth of vines covered the walls to my left and behind me. I mentally labeled those directions “east” and “south”, because I didn’t have any way of determining actual directions while inside the spire.

More jarring than the appearance of the chamber, however, was the distinct lack of Keras and Researcher.

I glanced around twice, wondering if they’d somehow ended up elsewhere in the same room, but there was no sign of either of them.

“Well,” Sheridan searched the room with their eyes, much as I had, “This is an auspicious start.”

“Where are we?” Patrick asked.

“From the look of it, I’d say somewhere around the twentieth floor,” I offered.

Marissa blinked. “How can you tell?”

“The spire is always changing, but every set of ten floors has a general theme,” Sheridan offered. “Corin is right. The twenty first through thirtieth floors are wood and nature themed. If we’re in the first half, it will be similar to the other spires — lots of small rooms with individual challenges. If we’re in the upper half, each floor will have a single harder challenge.”

I frowned, reaching up to my necklace. “Message. Keras. Can you hear me?”

I heard Keras reply almost immediately. “Yes. Are you safe?”

I breathed a sigh of relief. At least the necklaces worked. “Yes. I’m with Marissa, Patrick, and Sheridan. We seem to be around the twentieth floor. Is Researcher with you?”

“Yes, unfortunately.” “Unfortunately?”

“We’re in prison cells. Almost identical to where you first found me.” I raised a hand to cover my eyes. Ugh. “Okay. Can you get out?”

There was a pause. “Same problem as when I was first in one. If I break out, it could trigger traps to incinerate the other cells. The runes are different, so I don’t know how bad it would be. Researcher might not survive.”

I clenched my hands into fists. “We’ll see if we can figure out how to come to you.”

“Hold on.”

Keras went silent for a few moments, while I relayed everything we’d discussed to the others.

“Researcher says she can identify the runes and figure out an order that we can safely disable them, but it’s going to take a while. Probably hours, at least. Once we’re out, she should be able to locate you, and we can fight our way there. Don’t bother trying to come to us — we’re probably below the first floor like before. It would take you ages to get here.”

I nodded, then I realized he couldn’t actually see me. “Okay. You may just want to use your return bell once you get out of the cells.”

“If we can get out, I can handle twenty floors. We’ll have to be careful, but Researcher should be able to guide me to you. Best guess is that it will take at least four or five days, though. Maybe a week.”

That wasn’t great news, but at least they’d be able to catch up to us eventually. “Any idea why you’re in there?”

“Researcher says that the teleportation effect on the entrance was probably set up to route non-human entities to a different location than humans. Non- humans probably weren’t supposed to take that door. Either that, or someone changed it specifically as a trap for people like me.”

Or creatures like Children of the Tyrant, I realized. It was a sensible precaution, but inconvenient.

I turned to the others and explained the situation.

“Should we just camp here until they catch up?” Patrick asked. Mara frowned. “That sounds really boring.”

“Boring or not, Patrick has a point,” Sheridan replied. “People are expected to be at least Sunstone level to clear this floor. And that’s with six people, not four.”

“The longer we’re idle, the more likely that Mizuchi frees herself from wherever she’s banished. Moreover, people from Tristan’s organization are probably aware that we’re here. If we just sit here, they could make a move— either against us, or outside the spire.”

“How would we even find Tristan without Researcher?” Patrick asked. That was a good question.

I did have a way, but I’d been hesitant to show it around everyone. Bah. It was far too late for this kind of secret.

“Retrieve: Trials of Judgment.”

I showed everyone the book. “I can communicate with Tristan with this.

Provided he’s actually paying attention.”

Sheridan’s eyes narrowed. “How very interesting.”

I grabbed a pen and flipped the book open, planning to write Tristan that I was inside the tower.

I didn’t need to. There was already a new message.

Corin,While I am pleased to see that you are alive, I am disappointed you did not follow my instructions.

You should not be in the spire right now. You should leave.

I’m not the only one who knows you’re here.

You are in tremendous danger as long as you remain, and I am not in any position to help you.

-Mysterious Brother EntityI wrote back.

Tristan,I’m coming for you.

Please tell me where you are.

I’d hoped he would give me directions, but based on our previousinteractions, I didn’t think he would.

So, carefully, I pried apart the pages of the book. I could see the runes inside the binding. I might have done some damage to the book in the process, but I told myself it was necessary.

I pressed my finger against the rune that I believed was responsible for communication with a matching book and focused.

Arrow of Direction.

A glowing arrow appeared, pointing straight up. After an instant, it vanished.

I tried the spell a few more times, but every subsequent attempt failed. I’d probably triggered some kind of location spell countermeasures.

But I’d learned two important things. One, Tristan was somewhere above us.

And two, I apparently had the ability to use basic information gathering spells inside the spire. I presumed that was because my Arbiter attunement marked me as an assistant to the visages, so the spire’s basic countermeasures against divination didn’t affect me.

That could be very significant in the longer term, if I could learn better information gathering spells. For the moment, however, I had to work with the minimal information I had.

Then I tucked the book away in my bag. I didn’t store it in the box — I wanted to be able to check it quickly.

“Tristan is above us somewhere. I don’t know where.”

Sheridan folded their arms. “I don’t suppose your brother could give us some clues on how to make it through the rooms on this floor?”

I glanced back toward the book, then back to Sheridan. “Believe me, he’s awful at that. We’re better off on our own.”

I didn’t mention the fact that Tristan wanted us to leave. Maybe I should have, but with two of our climbers separated from the group, morale was already low. I didn’t want everyone to decide to abandon the expedition.

Sheridan rolled their eyes. “Okay. Let’s go.”

The room had three doors. Each was a simple wooden door with a handle, similar to what I’d seen on the first floor.

Each door did, however, have a single colorful gemstone in the center. To the west, a red gemstone.

To the north, blue. To the east, yellow.

The presence of the gems seemed odd. I remembered the color coded doors in my Judgment, but they hadn’t been like that in the first floor of the spire.

And when I’d read about the spire, I didn’t remember there being gems like these in the upper floors. Was that just an omission in the books I’d read?“Sheridan, have you been up here before?”

They nodded. “Sure. But not many times. I’ve done some climbing, but I’m not a professional like Derek or Elora. And this is already different from anything I recognize.”

“Any idea which way to go?”

Sheridan shrugged. “Derek is usually the one leading the way, and he prefers physical stuff. That’d be either red or yellow.”

“So, it’s normal that there are gems on the doors?” I asked.

Sheridan frowned. “Now that you mention it, this spire doesn’t usually have them, outside of Judgments. The Tortoise Spire has them on every floor, though.”

I scratched my chin. “...Any idea about why there might be a change?”

Sheridan shook their head. “Katashi’s personal preference, maybe? Don’t know.”

That was an interesting possibility.

Could Katashi be restricting the spire in Tenjin’s absence? “Hm.” Probably wasn’t worth worrying about immediately. “Okay. Red is fighting, yellow is speed and agility?”

“Red is more like brute force in general, but yeah. Something like that.

Blue tends to be puzzles.”

I turned to the others. “Any preferences?”

Marissa enthusiastically punched one hand into the other, then winced.

Apparently, she wasn’t fully healed yet.

Patrick just shrugged.

“We’ll check each of them. Mara, up front with me. Unless Sheridan is hiding physical combat skills?”

Sheridan shook their head. “I’m a Mender and a Necromancer. I can fight a bit, but healing is my focus. My attack spells are ranged.”

“Okay, let’s do this.”

We walked to the blue door first, since it seemed the least likely to explode in our faces.

It led to a circular room with a large pool of water in the center. No monsters, no obvious traps. Just a big pool of water.

I closed the door. “None of you have water magic, I assume?” A chorus of shaking heads.

“Okay, we’ll skip that for now.”

Selys-Lyann could potentially freeze the water, but without walking in, I couldn’t get a better look at what the actual challenge was. If it was something like swimming to the next room, I didn’t think it would be a good idea without water magic.

I opened the yellow door.

There was no floor in the next room.

It was just a long hallway with vines draped from the ceiling, leading to another yellow door on the other side.

Some of the vines looked sturdier than others.

I gazed downward, but there was only pitch blackness below. Clearly, falling was a bad idea.

I closed the door.

“Not too bad,” Patrick noted. “I think I could maintain four levitation spells at this point. We could probably skip the vines entirely.”

“And Corin’s got ‘is ring.” Mara looked thoughtful. “We want to try this one?”

I shook my head. “Let’s check the last one first. I have a feeling there’s going to be a trick in there.”

We headed to the red door and pulled it open.

The room ahead was circular, with doors on the left and right sides.

The floor was grass and dirt, rather than stone. The more concerning part, however, were the knee-high mushrooms that stuck out in dozens of places. There were probably at least thirty of them.

“Mushrooms?” Marissa asked. “That’s the challenge?” She had to say something.

All at once, the mushrooms began to rip themselves free from the ground.

They sprouted tiny, spongy arms and legs and charged.

Marissa lowered herself into a combat stance, but they never got that close.

Instead, the hoard of mushroom creatures stopped a dozen feet away and opened fang-filled mouths, ejecting clouds of some kind of mist.

Or, more likely, toxic spores. I tried to slam the door shut.

Obviously, it couldn’t be that simple.

As soon as the door closed, it disintegrated, leaving no barrier between us and the clouds of spores.

Patrick reacted quickly, pushing his hand forward. A gust of wind blasted outward, pushing back the mist.

“Don’t get close or breathe that in!” Sheridan instructed. “You do not want to see what happens.”

I drew Selys-Lyann and slashed in mid-air, launching a shockwave of ice and freezing a pair of them solid.

Marissa punched at the air, sending out a shockwave of her own and blasting several of the mushrooms back.

But there were dozens. Patrick maintained the gust of wind, but the mushrooms were pressing through it.

Sheridan pointed at the floor. Spears of bone erupted from the ground, piercing through the lead wave of mushrooms and stopping the charge.

That gave Patrick a moment to point with his other hand and hurl a tiny, compact sphere of flame.

He stopped the wind for just a moment, then when the sphere of flame was near the mushrooms, he activated the wind again.

The moment the wind made contact with the sphere, it detonated, annihilating nearly every remaining mushroom.

Patrick stepped forward, blasting the smoke from the explosion clear with another concentrated burst of wind, then clearing the remaining mushrooms with more blasts of fire and lightning.

“Wow.” Marissa nudged Patrick. “Not bad.”

Patrick blushed. “Wide area spells are sort of what I’m made for.” “Still, Mara’s right. You were quick to counter those spores. That couldhave gone a lot worse.” I pointed toward the room. “I guess we’ve pretty much cleared this one out. May as well go inside and check the doors?”

Patrick spent a few more moments using wind to send the remaining spores as far from us as possible, then created bubbles of air around us just in case. I hadn’t realized he had that degree of control of air magic. It was pretty impressive.

The south door had a white gem, which was intriguing, but it was locked. “White means, what, a safe room?”

Sheridan nodded. “Yeah. We definitely want to get back here if we can. It’s strange to have one so close to where we started. You usually have to go through about six rooms to get to a safer room. There are shortcuts, but right next to the entrance is...odd.”

“Can we break it open?” Marissa asked.

Sheridan shook their head. “Not a good idea. Spire guardians often show up if you start breaking things, and I don’t know if we can handle one.”

“Other door, then.” I pointed across the room. Another red gem. “Hopefully the key is over that way.”

We headed to the other door and opened it.

The next room was another long hallway, much like the one with the vines, but wrought from solid stone. It was wide enough to walk two abreast, but just barely.

The floor was dirt and grass, though, and I could see some roots protruding from the floor.

“Anyone see any obvious traps?” I asked. “Nothing.” Patrick frowned. “I don’t like it.”

“Better than the vines,” Mara offered. “I bet those were going to reach down and try to eat us or somethin’.”

She was probably right. I turned to Sheridan. “Preference on this room orthe vines?”

“It’s generally safer to continue down the same path unless you have a good reason to go back. Every door leads you one step closer to an exit.”

“On it is, then.” I turned toward Patrick. “Be ready to levitate us if the floor is dangerous?”

“You got it.”

We pressed on into the next room.

The distinct lack of immediate death traps made me nervous.

Maybe it’s just a hallway?That was too optimistic, of course. I never believed it.

We reached the door on the opposite side of the hall. There weren’t any obvious traps on it, but we didn’t have someone like Vera with us who could check with any degree of reliability.

I turned the door knob and opened it.

There was a solid stone wall on the other side.

The door we’d entered the room from slammed shut. That was a little startling, but not particularly worrisome in itself.

There was a grinding noise as the walls of the hallway began to move closer together.

Then the roots below us began to slither upward, latching onto our legs.

After a series of expletives from everyone, Patrick and I drew our swords and began to hack away at the vines. Marissa lashed out with a blade aura from her injured hand.

Sheridan focused on the walls, turning to the left and dragging a hand slowly upward. Spears of bone blasted from the ground on both sides of the hall.

For a moment, the walls slowed their progress inward, but the bone spears were already beginning to creak.

Sheridan gestured, conjuring more bone spears to replace the ones that were being crushed. “Can’t keep this up forever. Need an exit.”

“Check the walls,” I instructed the others. “There will probably be a hollow spot somewhere.”

Mara finished cutting herself free and leapt to the door I’d just opened,slamming her good fist into the stone. It cracked, but didn’t break.

Not hollow, then. And probably not the right path.

She winced and swung around to begin working on other walls.

Patrick and I focused on vines, trying to keep us from getting entangled.

Sheridan’s efforts were entirely on slowing down the creeping walls.

I guessed we had a minute or two before we were crushed. I’d try to activate my circlet and teleport us out before that happened, but I couldn’t guarantee teleportation would work in this room.

Marissa continued to leap from place to place, pounding on walls without finding any weak points.

“Up!” Sheridan yelled.

It took me a moment to see it, even with Sheridan’s prompting — a section of the ceiling that had just a slight outline around it.

Marissa saw it, though. She ducked, channeling energy around her good hand.

“Dragon ascends to sky!”

She jumped higher than I’d thought possible, swinging her fist upward, and smashed straight through the ceiling into the next room.

The rest of us ran to the spot where she’d jumped. She reached down with a hand. “Safe!”

I jumped. Marissa caught my hand and pulled me through. We helped the other two up a few moments later.

The room below us lasted longer than I expected. It took another solid minute before the walls had completely closed, pulverizing anything that was still inside.

Still, we were all breathing heavily while we took in our new surroundings.

This chamber was much smaller, maybe ten feet in each direction. It looked like we were inside a house now, or maybe a school building.

There was a table in the center of the chamber, not far from where we’d emerged through the floor. It contained an open book, a single piece of parchment next to the book, and several pieces of alchemical equipment.

Burners, distillation devices, that sort of thing.

Next to those was an hourglass, slowly draining sand from top to bottom.

It looked like it had just started the moment we’d entered the room.

The single door to exit the room was directly in front of us. The gem in the door was colorless. It had an obvious slot for a key next to the handle.

The left wall had a shelf with dozens of labeled jars and vials. Alchemical ingredients. Shadeleaf, Lifestrand, that sort of thing.

Along the back wall, there were three large crystalline containers. Each was open on the top, but solid on the other three sides.

Within each of the crystalline containers was a gold-rimmed treasure box. The far left treasure box was immersed in liquid.

The central one was surrounded by an aura of fire.

And the one on the far right? Lightning crackled within the crystalline container.

Patrick walked over to the table and read the single piece of parchment aloud. “Find the right solution to choose your path.”

I put a hand over my eyes. “Solution...? Ugh, the goddess’ puns are awful.”

Sheridan walked over to the table, flipping through the book. “Alchemical recipes. But reading through all this would take ages.” They turned to me. “Corin, you’re an Enchanter. They teach you alchemy classes, yes?”

I winced. “I sat in on a single class once. Aside from that, I’ve read a couple books on enhancement elixirs, and attended a couple lectures. I know how to distill things. Nothing advanced.”

“Better than the rest of us, I suspect.” Sheridan offered me the book. “I learned about which potions to use to treat specific conditions, but not how to make them.”

I scanned over the page the book had already been open to. With luck, it would be relevant.

Neutralizing existing alchemical compounds typically requires introducing a concoction of a directly opposing magic type. This can be dangerous, however, because too much or too little of any individual ingredient can change the elemental alignment of the result.

Rather than neutralizing the original concoction, this can potentially cause an explosive, or otherwise dangerous, reaction.

The following ingredients are your best sources for basic elementalaffinities.

Waterweed is the best representation of water. It is a bright blue flower with a long, thorny green stalk.

Firebloom is used in concoctions for the element of fire. It is a red bulb that glows softly at night.

I skimmed over the rest of the ingredients it mentioned, moving on to the next page, which discussed activating agents and how to mix each.

“I can...probably make something with this.” I glanced at the hourglass. It wasn’t draining particularly quickly — it probably was literally an hour. “I’m not confident that I can get the mixture right, though.”

“We’re just trying to get to the boxes, right?” Patrick asked. “Presumably,” Sheridan replied.

“The solution determines the path. We may get different keys for the room based on how we solve it.” I waved at the boxes. “Getting the chests out would probably be pretty simple without bothering to use alchemy. There may be a penalty of some kind if we just brute force it.”

Sheridan shook their head. “Usually there isn’t a penalty for brute force, so much as a benefit for solving the puzzle as completely as possible.”

I nodded at that, remembering the room filled with all the keys last time.

We’d explored it more completely than we needed to, and gotten an extra key out of it. It was possible this was going to work similarly.

“Okay. I’m going to try to figure out concoctions for neutralizing fire, water, and lightning. In the meantime, the rest of you figure out any alternate solutions you can.”

Fire and water were simple; they neutralized each other.

Lightning was trickier. It was a combination of fire and air, which meant I needed a combination of water and earth.

But that didn’t mean just mixing a water herb with an earth herb. Just mixing fire and air didn’t make lightning; that would make an explosion. Mixing water and earth would make...soggy earth, not whatever their combined element was.

“What’s the elemental opposite of lightning?” I asked Patrick. He was specialized in lightning, so I figured he’d know.

“Sand.”

Huh. Wouldn’t have been what I would have guessed, but I trusted him.

There was actual sand in one of the jars, but I didn’t think that was the same as the sand element, and Patrick didn’t think it would work either.

That meant I needed to find ingredients that represented the sand element, or maybe something that was designed to merge two primary elements into one of the more complex ones.

I rummaged through jars and skimmed through the book’s glossary of components.

Flameflower: A more powerful source of the fire element. Used in concoctions for granting temporary fire elemental power. Warning: Combusts when exposed to air magic.

Apprentice’s Berry: Represents mental mana. Delicious. Highly recommended.

Bird’s Foot: Represents transference mana.

Luck Lily Extract: Liquid extracted from a luck lily. When exposed to transference mana, causes teleportation to a seemingly random nearby location. Extremely dangerous.

Windbow: Represents air mana. Warning: Combusts when exposed to fire mana.

Dreamglow: Takes on the elemental property of a single spell that is cast into it.

Frostcane: Alchemically null on its own, but reacts to ice magic, creating an initial burst of ice and then taking on the ice element after exposure.

Mage’s Folly: Reverses the elemental affinity of a concoction. Twilight’s Call: Represents umbral mana.

Last Bell: Represents death mana.

Queen’s Crown: Used to enhance the potency of concoctions.

There were dozens of other listings.

The fact that the list wasn’t in alphabetical order bothered me deeply.

The hourglass was half way drained.

“Uh, Corin? Don’t mean to rush ya, but maybe we should skip the potions?” Marissa offered. “Is it really that important to do it that way?”

“Probably not, but I want to do this right if we can.” I started setting jars on the table.

Waterweed for water. Firebloom for fire.

Those were the simple ones, and I found what I needed to mix with them for the most basic of potions. In both cases, just water and an alchemically neutral agent to “activate” the compound. I chose peppermint for that function, since it was the weakest one and in plentiful supply.

I opened the waterweed jar and found a green flower with a blue stem inside. I was in the middle of chopping it when I realized that was wrong.

“Son of a...” I set my tools down, turning to the others. “The jars are mislabeled. Find me a blue flower with a green, thorny stem.”

It took a few more minutes for me to assign out the descriptions of all the components I needed, and for everyone to find them.

Once I had real waterweed and actual peppermint, I made the elixir.

It didn’t look like much of anything, but we were running short on time. I poured it on the fire.

The liquid seemed to cut right through the flame. It didn’t sputter and smoke like a normal fire exposed to water; it just made the fire vanish on contact.

I kept pouring until the water reached a near-invisible rune on the bottom of the container, which went out as soon as the liquid reached it.

“It worked!” Patrick clapped me on the shoulder. I ignored the moment of anxiety that caused. “Great work, Corin. Should we take this box and go?”

I shook my head. “Let me try the others.”

The firebloom elixir was just as easy to make, but it didn’t work as well.

The “water” inside that box must have been something other than actual water.

After a bit of additional experimenting, I used flameflower instead offirebloom. That worked.

Our sand was running low.

I still hadn’t found any ingredient that corresponded to sand magic.

I lifted a plant in front of Patrick, then set it on the table. “Hit that with lightning.”

“Seriously?” He blinked. “Yes.”

He shocked the plant. It glowed with electricity.

Carefully, I used a stone rod to sweep that ingredient — dreamglow — into a mixing bowl.

Then, I prepared the mage’s folly, and mixed that in.

The lightning around the dreamglow flickered once more, then faded. The flower turned gray-brown.

Fascinating.

“Uh, Corin, we really need to go.”

“Get the other boxes out and get ready.”

I finished the last elixir, which ended up being a gritty gray-brown compound, and poured it into the lightning box.

The lightning rune flickered and died on contact. A musical chime sounded throughout the room. The three boxes and the hourglass vanished.

The transparent gem on the door changed to white.

And a key appeared in the center of the room.

“Well done,” Sheridan said. “I suspect those boxes would have held standard keys. You’ve made us a better path. White should be a safe room.”

“Ooh, nice!” Patrick walked over the door. “Can we get out of here now?” “Just give me a few more minutes.” I grinned. “I was hoping this wouldstop the timer. I have something else I wanted to do in here.” Marissa tilted her head to the side. “What’s that?”

I illustrated by pulling the Jaden Box out of my bag, putting the remaining firebloom into the correct jar, and then putting the corner of the jar in the box.

“Store: Firebloom.”

“Oooh.” Patrick clapped his hands together. “Nice.”

***It took us another good hour to get everything sorted into the right containers and then stored in the Jaden Box.

I fully intended to take anything useful in the spire that I came across, as long as it wasn’t nailed down or on fire.

Possibly even if it was.

After that, we proceeded into the next room.

It was eerily familiar — a room with white stone walls, three doors leading in different directions, and a fountain in the center filled with mana-infused water.

We didn’t stop for long in the safe room; everyone felt like the alchemy room had been enough of a break.

We checked all three doors.

To the left, a door with a yellow gem, leading into a room where stone spikes would protrude from tiles in the floor every few seconds.

Easily solved with levitation, provided that there aren’t any other tricks. There were two other doors in that room; an orange one and a green one. On the north side of the safe room, we found a door with a blue crystal.

That one led to a much larger room with a rotating circular platform in the center, divided into several wedges. The platform was angled downward, like a funnel, and at the base of each of the wedges was a huge hole. Each of the wedges had huge letters written across it, but I couldn’t read the words from this distance.

On the side of the platform were three huge metallic spheres, probably around the size of my entire torso. At a glance, I judged the spheres to be just the right size to fit into the holes in the platform.

To complicate matters, there was a gap with no floor — maybe fifteen feet— between the wheel and the closest accessible areas around it. That meant we couldn’t just walk the spheres over and drop them in the holes.

I’d never been to a casino, but even I recognized the concept behind the challenge.

Marissa pointed. “I want to do that one!”

I glanced at her. “You want to gamble on whether or not we succeed?” “S’not just gambling. It’s a test of skill!” Marissa clapped her handstogether, then winced. She kept forgetting one of her hands was still injured. “It’ll be fair, right?”

“No.” “Nah.” “Definitely not,” came the chorus of replies from me, Patrick, and Sheridan.

“Aww.” Marissa folded her arms. “I bet we can figure something neat out for it. Maybe levitate the spheres?”

Patrick squinted as he inspected the room. “Depends on how heavy those are. They look like they’re metal — they could be hundreds, maybe thousands of pounds.”

“We can investigate it, but let’s check the red room first.” I gestured to the last door.

We walked over and opened it.

The room ahead looked like a pleasant garden, save for the gigantic snake- like heads that were erupting from the grass even as we opened the door.

I slammed the door shut. “Okay. Who’s good at gambling?” Marissa laughed. “Don’t like snakes, Corin?”

“I don’t like poison. And that, Mara, looks like the kind of room where we’d get poisoned.”

“Bah, I could take ‘em. But I prefer the wheel thing, anyway. That looks more fun!”

“More importantly,” Sheridan pointed out, “It looked like a way up. I’m fairly confident I saw ‘stairs’ written on one of the slats on the whirl wheel.”

I hadn’t been able to get a look from that far away, but apparently Sheridan had better eyesight.

I also wasn’t familiar with the term “whirl wheel”, but I didn’t bother asking about it. It was easy enough to glean from context.

We started heading to the blue room, but we were interrupted by the sound of Keras’ voice.

“Corin, we have a problem.”

I paused in my step. “What’s wrong? Er, I mean, necklace. Message Keras.

What’s wrong?”

It was easy to forget that I had to activate the necklace before I could actually send a reply.

“Researcher is...gone.”

I felt a moment of panic. “...Gone?”

“She was just telling me about the next rune to smash, then she said something about her Summoner, shivered, and disappeared.”

That was bad. Potentially very bad.

If her Summoner had just called her back to the Divinatory, at least she’d be safe, but we’d have lost our tracker.

If her Summoner had unsummoned her...or cut off her contract entirely...

...She’d be dead. And it would be my fault. “No specifics?” I asked, just to confirm.

“No. Whatever it was, she couldn’t resist it. I think she was trying to, but it only lasted a second.”

Resh.

“Okay. Did her bracers disappear with her?” “Yeah?”

At least that meant if she was physically transported somewhere else, she’d still have a mana source. That was good.

“Okay. Did she tell you how to get to us?”

“Not in detail, but up is up. I’ve climbed a good way before. Now that she’s not here, I can just cut through here and start climbing, but I’m worried about her.”

“Understood, but we have no way to find her right now. Just head to us, then we’ll see if we can figure out if we can find her later.”

“Okay. I’m on my way, but even without Researcher slowing me down, it’s going to be a while.”

We said goodbye and turned off the necklaces for now. I hoped Researcher was safe.

We headed to the blue room.

As soon as we were inside, I heard a loud ticking on the right side of the room. A clock had started, listing three hundred seconds.

There were no obvious traps, so we headed closer to the spheres, which were positioned about ten feet from the gap in the floor.

At that distance, I could see more details, and with that, more complications.

First, the wheel was surrounded by translucent crystal, similar to the walls I’d seen in the prison. There were gaps on the top side of the crystal, but only right around the outer ring of the wheel.

Second, the outer ring of the wheel was spinning faster than the central section, meaning that they were separate pieces. We couldn’t just throw the ball inside and expect it to roll directly down the nearest wedge in the funnel section — the momentum of the outer wheel would probably move it around a bit before it fell.

Third, there were tons of tiny runes on the walls of the room. I wanted to read them, but there wasn’t enough time. I could tell at a glance that several of them involved attack spells.

Fourth, I could now read the inner “wedges” that lead to the holes. There were twelve in total. Some were more pleasant than others.

Monsters! Traps!Fabulous Prizes! Bigger Traps!Stairs Up!Extremely Dangerous Traps!I Forgot What This One Does! Money!Moderately Dangerous Traps! Mystery!Bigger Monsters!Literally Nothing!We had a moment of silence while we all processed the goddess’ terrible sense of humor.

Well, most of us. Patrick snickered a little.

“Aiming for the stairs is obvious, but we’ll also want to figure out which two other ones we want to aim for.” Sheridan noted.

I thought about that. “We could aim for the same spot more than once.

Obviously if we miss the stairs on the first time we’ll retry that, but maybe we could trigger the ‘Fabulous Prizes’ one twice?”

Marissa knelt down and began to lift the spheres. She grunted with effort. “These are heavy.” She sat the last one back down. “And they’re not all the same weight.”

The latter part was actually even worse — it meant that the first throw wouldn’t necessarily dictate the behavior of future spheres.

I turned to Sheridan. “Think that timer is for the first sphere, or for all three of them?”

“Always assume the worst.”

“Fair. Okay. We need to get this moving. Patrick, can you levitate one?” Patrick frowned. “I don’t know. If Mara was struggling with them,probably not. Mara, show me the lightest one?” She pointed to the one in the center. “Levitate.”

It floated off the ground just a few inches, then bobbed up and back down.

That wasn’t how the spell normally behaved.

Patrick took a breath and focused on the sphere. It hovered upward a few more inches. “I can move it, but barely. Might need someone to give it a shove.”

And that means he probably won’t be able to move the heavier ones at all.

“Put it down a sec.”

Patrick dismissed the spell. The sphere dropped, cracking the stone floor below. “Oops.”

I glanced at the clock. Three minutes left.

I quickly explained my plan, and got a round of agreements. One and a half minutes.

I drew my sword, then charged toward the gap and took a leap.

Jump.

The blast from my ring hurled me toward the wheel.

Blasts of fire shot out from the side walls. Fortunately, I was ready. I slashed in the air and sent shockwaves in both directions. Ice neutralized fire.

I landed atop the crystalline structure that encased the top of the wheel. I sheathed my sword.

Patrick levitated the first sphere. Marissa punched it.

It flew at me faster than expected, but I still managed to step in the way and catch it. The impact carried me back a few steps, but I managed to avoid falling into the abyss below.

Sheridan pointed and a pair of walls of bone appeared within the outer wheel.

I rolled the ball until it was at the edge of the crystal, then waited for the wheel to cycle around and dropped it into the section that Sheridan had walled off. It rolled right down into the “Stairs Up!” slot, because that was the only pathway that hadn’t been blocked.

A glowing doorway appeared in the wall next to the entrance, rather than a literal stairway. It had a symbol of an up arrow above the door, so it was still obvious we’d found our path.

The clock continued ticking down. We had two spheres left. “Go!” I gestured to the others.

Patrick tried to levitate the next sphere, but it was too heavy, as expected.

As Marissa hefted it upward, Sheridan conjured a bone bridge across the gap.

Slowly, Marissa began to carry it across. Rolling it might have been faster, but it was more likely she’d roll the ball right into a pit that way.

I drew my sword just as Marissa began crossing the bridge. The fire traps activated on the sides of the room again, and Marissa wasn’t in any position to defend herself.

I managed to slash one of the fire blasts out of the air, while Patrick shaped the other flames out of the way.

Ten seconds.

I put my sword away, debating if I should try to jump across and do something with the third sphere.

Sheridan conjured another pair of walls inside the wheel, but Marissa lost her grip with her injured hand and dropped the ball a moment too soon.

It landed in the “Mystery!” slot.

Then all the light in the room was gone, and I was falling. Marissa and I screamed at the same time.

That was nice. At least we had company while we fell rapidly into a seemingly endless abyss.

After a moment, I realized my falling had slowed down because of the ring.

Marissa had no such advantage. Her screaming told me that she was below me, now.

I needed to think fast in case there was a bottom here to hit. I reached into my bag. “Retrieve: Lantern.”

The magic lantern appeared in my hand, and I activated it immediately.

We were falling down a cylindrical shaft. I still couldn’t see a bottom, but I could see Marissa below — barely.

I didn’t have much time to think about a perfect solution.

I pulled off the ring of jumping, and I began to fall faster. I kept a tight grip on it with one hand, while holding the lantern in my other.

Marissa was still far below me, but she’d flown toward a side wall and now she was trying to slow herself down by grabbing onto it. It wasn’t working.

I pointed my hand upward and focused, then unleashed a spherical burst of transference mana.

The explosion pushed me down.

Below, I thought I could finally start to see the ground, and Marissa was still edging closer to it rapidly.

The “ground” wasn’t a solid floor, of course. That would have been too simple. It was a green, bubbling liquid.

Almost certainly acid.

Possibly acid that was also on fire.

I pushed more mana out of my hand, blasting myself downward faster and faster.

Until I passed her.

I lost my grip on the lantern. Fortunately, it stayed on, even as it plummeted.

I slipped the ring back on.

My movement slowed as it reactivated. Fortunately, the pressure was evenly distributed throughout my body, and it felt more like an upward gust of wind than anything else.

Marissa crashed into me from above. That part hurt.

For a moment, we flailed ineffectively until we caught hold of each other.

The ring slowed us both. This was good, because I saw the lantern continue to drop past us, and then I heard the splash and fizzle as it hit the liquid.

It was dark again, except for a light far above us.

I couldn’t see the source, but at least it let me orient myself to be sure I was facing up.

“Hold on!”

A fall was almost certainly going to be fatal. I couldn’t let us down gradually and just try to climb after we’d rested.

My circlet was an option now that I was physically in contact with Mara, but I wasn’t going to give up this soon, and I wasn’t sure it would work.

Jump.

That took us upward a bit, but nowhere near enough.

I repeated it three more times before the ring ran out of mana and ceased to work.

But the ring was just using transference mana. Sure, it had special functions to make sure it emitted from below me, but I’d already proven I could guide myself downward with mana.

How hard could going upward be? Pretty darn hard, it turned out.

I managed to blast us into the wall, rather than upward.

As we thudded against the wall, though, Marissa formed a blade around her good hand and slammed it into the wall. It made a hole.

She buried her arm in deeper as we began to slip back downward, then held us both in place with just that one arm. I had to cling to her, since she wasn’t in any position to hold onto me.

I was worried her arm was going to break — it certainly would have if she’d tried this on her way down. Fortunately, the ring’s slow falling function was still active, and she still had her own strength-enhancing ring on.

Still, holding us in place with one arm couldn’t have been comfortable. “Don’t let go,” she instructed me.

“That’s pretty obvious, yeah.”

I’d like to say I came up with some kind of brilliant solution, but in reality, we huddled there against the wall for a solid ten minutes before Patrick finally managed to levitate himself all the way down to us, then made a gust of wind that lifted us back up the shaft.

“Sorry for taking so long. We had to fight the monsters that appeared up there.”

When we finally arrived back on solid ground, we found that the room was once again lit, and a dozen monster corpses were pinned to the walls with spears of bone.

A few of them also looked like they’d been burned.

One of them somehow had been crushed with the single remaining sphere.

I wondered how they’d managed that one, but for the moment, Mara and I were both too busy recovering from our terror to say almost anything.

Marissa and I scrambled as quickly as possible away from the edge of the pit, then just sat down with our backs to the wall, next to each other.

Breathing. Just breathing.

It took me another minute to realize that aside from the monsters, we had one new addition to the room — a human-sized cube with a question mark written on it, near the door. It had a crease in the middle and a keyhole.

Patrick lifted up a key which was also shaped like a question mark. “Wantto see what’s in there?”

“No.” Marissa and I responded immediately. “Aww.”

I sighed. “Give us five minutes.”

They gave us a good hour. With the clock stopped and the monsters dead, there were no further threats here. No obvious ones, anyway.

I still felt incredibly nervous about the box. I didn’t trust anything in this spire.

I drew my sword before Patrick moved to the keyhole, and Sheridan set up a cage of bone around most of the box — just in case it exploded.

Patrick insisted on being the one to open it. Sheridan left just enough room in her bone cage for him to stick his hand in and turn the key.

There was a click, then nothing. No traps.

Patrick extracted his hand, then pushed on the top half of the box. It fell open.

We couldn’t see through the bone wall, but Patrick could see through the hole he’d reached through.

His eyes widened. “We’re going to be rich.”

***Most of the contents of the box turned out to be coins. Gold, silver, and copper.

Money was always good, but the items inside interested all of us more.

There were six of them, presumably because the spire was designed for six people.

The first was a spear, leaned up against one of the walls of the box. It looked like a single piece of wood that had grown naturally into a spear shape, rather than cut. At the center, the bottom, and the tip of the spear, blue gleaming crystals were embedded in the wood, and light seemed to radiate outward from them like veins.

The second was a shirt of greenish metallic leaves. It proved to be both lightweight and extremely resilient. Also, shiny.

The third was a pair of completely ordinary looking boots. They looked alittle small for me.

The fourth was a hatchet made out of polished blue stone with a leather grip.

The fifth was a classic longbow with a dozen golden runes etched into the wood.

The last was an unlabeled potion bottle filled with blue liquid. All six of them glowed with Citrine-level auras.

“This might actually be worth almost dying.” Mara leaned forward, focusing on inspecting the weapons.

Sheridan looked at me. “Can you identify items yet?”

“Only a little. I can cast a Lesser Identify spell, but it doesn’t tell me much.”

After we confirmed there were no hidden traps in the box, we extracted the items and laid them down. I spent a few minutes inspecting the runes I could find on each, as well as casting the Lesser Identify spell on each of them.

Lesser Identify just told me the specific mana type of the strongest enchantment on each.

The axe and spear, as well as the armored shirt, had enhancement as their strongest magic type. That was unsurprising; enhancement was the standard mana type for both making items harder to break and for making weapons hit harder.

The bow and the boots had air.

The boots were almost definitely levitation boots, which would have saved us a tremendous amount of trouble if we’d had them a few minutes earlier.

That was probably also an element of the goddess’ sense of humor.

The bow I was less sure about, but air magic to guide arrows or make them fly faster made sense.

I couldn’t get any results from the bottle, presumably because the liquid was the magical part.

I didn’t try casting Lesser Identify on the liquid because I knew some liquids — like the primer I’d taken from the fountain — reacted to magic being cast on them. I’d have to find a better way to figure out what it was for.

We decided we’d need to figure out what the items did in detail before we split them up permanently, but that we’d hand out some temporaryassignments for the moment.

The boots only fit Marissa, so she took those and shoved them in her pack.

Patrick took the spear. He already had a magic weapon, but he said having one with more reach would be useful.

Sheridan took both the hatchet and the bow. As the only actual Citrine- level person there, it made sense for them to have a larger share of the spoils.

I threw on the shirt of leaves. It required moving my silver phoenix sigil to my pants and taking off my other shield sigil entirely to prevent them from overlapping, but it was a Citrine-level defensive item. Marissa didn’t want it— she was worried about it ruining her mobility — so I was the next best candidate.

I stored the potion in the Jaden Box.

We counted up the gold pieces — there were only twenty of those — and split them evenly. It was still a lot of money.

There were so many other coins that I just shoveled them all into the Jaden Box and stored them to distribute later.

When we were done and recovered, we headed to the doorway with the up arrow and opened it.

On the other side of the door, there was a glowing portal, rather than a stairway.

I glanced at Sheridan.

“Not unusual. There’s usually only one physical stairway on each floor.

You’re stepping in a teleporter any time you go into another part of the spire, anyway. This is just a fancier version.”

I nodded at that. “I’ll go in first.”

Mara stepped up next to me. “Right behind you.” I stepped into the portal.

When my vision cleared, I was in the center of another room.

It was pure white, and mostly empty, save for a pair of regal-looking doors about twenty feet away from me.

I glanced behind me, finding another door of the more routine variety on the opposite side of the room. The ceiling was a high one, probably dozens of meters up.

I waited, but my friends didn’t appear next to me like they should have.

Instead, the doors across me opened, and someone stepped out from between them.

“Hello, little brother. I’ve been expecting you.”

