CHAPTER XXI – DEEP WOUNDS



I knelt next to Professor Vellum immediately.

“There is no possible reshing way I am going to let you die before you explain what just happened.”

I turned on my attunement. Professor Vellum had no aura at all. That was not a good sign.

I began the treatment process by panicking.

Then, I cast a Lesser Regeneration spell on her, like I had with Patrick. It wouldn’t be harmful, but I didn’t know if it could help, either.

She didn’t move. Her chest didn’t seem to be rising and falling.

A moment of inspection told me that her heart wasn’t beating, either. I didn’t know how to deal with that.

I wasn’t medically trained. I’d read a few pages on healing magic. It did not involve restarting hearts.

I screamed for help. But nobody came.

After a few more moments of panic, I realized the anti-communication runes were on this specific room, not necessarily the entire house.

I rushed out the doorway.

“Necklace. Message Elora. Mizuchi is gone, need immediate medical help.”

Elora Theas appeared next to me a few seconds later, wobbling on her feet. Sheridan appeared with her. “What happened? How badly are you hurt?” “Not me. There are other people hurt in the ballroom.”

Sheridan pointed at my arm. “You are hurt.”

I looked to my left arm. Blood was seeping into my tunic from where Mizuchi’s claw had hit me. “I have a regeneration item on. I’m stable, we can deal with this later. For now, there are higher priorities. Professor Vellum’s heart stopped. And Patrick is pretty badly hurt, too.”

Sheridan frowned, but nodded. “Show me.” I led the two of them to Vellum.

Sheridan knelt down, put a hand to Vellum’s chest, and then winced.

I turned to Elora. “You didn’t happen to bring Derek or Keras with you...?” She shook her head. “I couldn’t teleport all the way back home from here.

Not enough mana. Sheridan was at the party, just in the other ballroom with the second-years. No one attacked that room. What happened after I left?”

I waved a hand across the room. “A mess. Vellum managed to banish Mizuchi somehow.”

I gritted my teeth as I remembered Professor Conway hitting the ground near me. “I need to check on anyone else who might still be alive.”

“Banish...?” Elora frowned. “That’s...unusual.”

“We can worry about that later. Help me find people who are alive?” Elora shook her head. “I’m going to go get more healers.”

“Even better.”

“I already sent messages to Derek and Keras to hurry here, but it’s a long distance. Even with their speed, it’s going to be a while.”

“What are the odds that Mizuchi comes back?” I asked Elora. “Unlikely. Banishment spells usually take a while to shake off. Days, atleast, if not longer. Not that Mizuchi should have been able to get out of the spire in the first place...”

I nodded. We’d have to look into how that had happened later.

I had ideas, but I didn’t want to think about them at the moment. My focus was on finding and helping survivors.

Minutes passed as I found anyone with a pulse and threw a Lesser Regeneration spell on them. With my minimal expertise, it was the safest way I could treat them without risking further harm.

I had no experience with triage, but I understood the concept readily enough.

I had to ignore the people who were too far gone for my meager treatment.

A few minutes later, I saw Sheridan’s shoulders slump. I rushed over to them.

“It’s done,” Sheridan said. “Vellum’s heart is pumping. She’ll live. For a little while longer, at least.”

“Th-thank you.” I managed. I let out a deep breath.

Sheridan smiled. “It’s my job. Now, let’s see who else we can help, shall we?”

We went to Patrick next. I felt terrible that I hadn’t gone to him first, but I knew a stopped heart was something that needed immediate attention.

“He’s doing fine. But, uh, try not to remake any bone until you know what you’re doing? You’ve got some bone in parts that should be cartilage.”

I winced.

“I can fix it before he wakes up. But here, watch.” I watched, and I learned.

Hours passed.

At one point, I stopped to take a vial out of the Jaden Box. I walked to the area where Sera had managed to land a cut on Mizuchi’s leg.

I collected what I could of Mizuchi’s blood. I knew it could be extremely important.

I asked Elora to check on Sera and Marissa as soon as she got back. She reported that they were outside recovering.

That was good. It meant I didn’t have to worry about them immediately.

I pointed Sheridan to a few people that had been alive, but beyond my ability to treat. They treated some, and, like me, had to move past others.

Elora arrived with more healers, and more guards.

The guards weren’t in case Mizuchi came back. They were to keep anyone who wasn’t a medic from coming back into the room.

There were some surviving teachers and staff that had been in other rooms, deliberately avoiding the chancellor’s speech. And the second-year students had been in a separate ballroom, so they hadn’t been affected by the attack.

They were outside now, consoling children and directing people home. After the healers came the people who were there to move the bodies. I knew some of those bodies.

The old woman who had hosted the party. Chancellor Wallace.

Professor Conway.

That last one...hurt. It really hurt. He’d saved my life.

If I’d moved just a little bit faster, maybe I could have saved his. I tightened my hands as I thought about it, but I couldn’t cry.

I still had more wounds to stitch. More blood to wipe off my hands. I worked until I couldn’t, and then I worked some more.

***I found Cecily waiting outside. “You’re a jerk.”

I nodded to her. “I know.”

Cecily looked away. “You should have just come home with me when I asked.”

I shook my head. “No. I might be a jerk, but by being here, I saved a lot of lives. So did you.”

She turned her head back toward me. “I was scared, you know. I’m stillscared.”

“I know.”

“Come with me back home now? I...don’t want to be alone right now.” I shook my head. “I need to make sure Patrick and Marissa recover.

They’re in bad shape.”

“I...” Cecily frowned.

“But you can come with me. We’re going to be at Elora Theas’ estate. She can teleport us there once she’s recovered a bit more.”

Cecily sighed. “Everything always has to be done your way, doesn’t it?” “In this case? Yes. Yes, it absolutely does.”

“Fine.” Cecily folded her arms. “But you owe me some answers.”

“That’s fine. I wouldn’t mind hearing what you think about a few things, too.”

*** Cecily and I found the others shortly later.

Patrick had woken up after Sheridan’s treatment, but he was still in a lot of pain.

Sera and Marissa were both asleep when I found them, huddled together under a blanket.

Apparently, the healer that Vanniv had found hadn’t been skilled enough to treat them completely, but he’d been able to treat the most serious wounds and gave them something to help them sleep until better healers arrived.

Vanniv was still there, being uncharacteristically quiet. He rested his hand on Sera’s forehead. I thought she’d probably find that comforting.

Derek and Keras had apparently arrived a couple hours before, but hadn’t been allowed into the manor. They’d been briefed on what had happened already, and they were standing guard over our injured companions.

Sheridan and Elora were both still working. I sent Elora a message with our location, so they could find us and teleport us back when she had sufficiently recovered.

I didn’t trust my own meager skills to do any better with the healing on my injured comrades directly, so I just cast a Lesser Regeneration spell on each of them and sat down to rest.

My hand ached. My head ached.

I’d dipped below my safe levels in both attunements. There was no alternative, as far as I was concerned.

I couldn’t check my mana watch. I’d disabled it by draining out of it during the fight. Still, I knew I was deep in the negatives. I didn’t care. Therewere too many cases when even a basic regeneration spell might have saved a life.

After a little while, Patrick started crying.

Vanniv took his hand off Sera to move closer and rest Patrick’s head on his shoulder. “It’ll be okay.”

I didn’t know what to say, so I didn’t say anything. I waited, worried, and felt useless.

Hours passed.

Eventually, Elora and Sheridan returned. They took us home.

***We were all hurting when we arrived. Physically, emotionally, or both.

Derek left again almost immediately to head to the hospital where several of the wounded were taken.

He didn’t talk about it much, but Professor Meltlake was his aunt, and she was in terrible shape. She’d survived, but even with Sheridan’s treatment at the scene, it was uncertain how long she’d take to recover.

We moved Patrick, Marissa, and Sera to the master bedroom. Elora had her household staff drag additional beds inside. We set them up side by side.

Elora and Sheridan left together after that, assuring us that they’d make sure to have guards posted on their rooms as well.

The chances of Mizuchi coming after us to finish what she’d started were low, but we weren’t going to be foolish enough to skip taking precautions.

I didn’t trust random house guards to watch over us. Not after seeing that Elora’s staff had already been infiltrated once.

Keras agreed to take the first shift on watching over the rest of us while we slept.

I promised to take the second.

Cecily agreed to take a third watch. I didn’t intend to wake her. I liked Cecily, but I didn’t trust her.

I would have expected to have trouble sleeping, but my exhaustion was bone deep. I wasn’t sure I’d ever overused my attunements to that extentbefore.

Fortunately, I was tired enough that I didn’t have any nightmares about the scars that might have resulted from that.

Keras didn’t wake me until well after dawn. He’d let me get a full night sleep.

I suspected that was probably his intention from the beginning.

Keras must have also spent the evening piecing the Dawnbringer replica back together. The blade was fully repaired when he set it down next to where Patrick was sleeping.

Everyone else woke slowly in the hours that followed.

Elora brought us to the dining room for breakfast a bit later, then dismissed her house staff.

“Eat,” she said, “Then I believe we have a great deal to discuss.”

***We devoured a quick breakfast. Most of us hadn’t had a chance to eat anything the night before, and eating was an important part of recovering from both injuries and over exerting ourselves.

After that, it was time to discuss our situation.

“Is there anything to block people from listening in on this room?” Cecily asked.

“No. Just the house in general,” Elora answered. I stood up. “Can we write on the walls?”

Elora raised an eyebrow. “If you must. I suppose this is important enough.” I looked to Cecily. “You get silence, I’ll get anti-scrying?”

She nodded. “Right.”

We set up the appropriate wards on the walls, then checked each other’s work, just in case.

“Satisfied?” Elora asked. “For now,” Cecily replied.

Elora looked to me, then back to Cecily. “How much does she know? How much do the rest of them know?”

“Most of them know what I know. Cecily... I’m less certain about. Sheseems to know about Tristan, but I don’t think she’d be aware of what happened with Saffron.”

Cecily looked at me with a raised eyebrow. “Who’s Saffron?” “I’ll explain later. Or maybe now, if it’s relevant.”

“Right,” Elora said. “That makes this somewhat easier, at least. A more important question, Cadence. Who do you trust?”

“Well, not you, certainly.” Sheridan snickered.

I continued, “But for the most part, the people in this room already know enough about the situation that I’m comfortable sharing more. Information security is important, but I’m tired. Tired of trying to keep secrets. Tired of not knowing what’s really going on. Tired of fighting people who are a hundred times more powerful than I am.”

“A good sentiment, although I might argue that imminent danger might reinforce the need for secrecy, rather than lead us toward eschewing it.” Elora folded her hands on the table. “Nevertheless, I believe this particular situation is bad enough to warrant a cooperative response.”

“Meaning?”

“Meaning that we’ve fought the two most dangerous people I’ve ever encountered in the last few weeks, and that we need to coordinate to prevent that from happening again.”

Keras leaned across the table sleepily. “Don’t you mean the second and third most dangerous people?”

Elora narrowed her eyes. “I don’t even know what you are, darling. But if you’re feeling disappointed that I didn’t include you, don’t fret. I don’t count you as dangerous in the slightest for one reason.”

Keras raised an eyebrow. “Oh?”

Elora smiled. “It was obvious in our little spat. You either can’t — or won’t — use lethal force. Perhaps you’re under some sort of persistent enchantment?”

Keras chuckled and leaned back. “You keep thinking that.”

Elora turned away from him with a victorious smirk. “Back to the point.

We need to take precautions.”

I nodded. I’d been thinking about the best way to approach this since lastnight. “Did you know that attack was coming? You tried to extract me a while ago.”

Elora shook her head. “I didn’t have the specifics. I just knew there would be an attack on heads of government sometime soon. I didn’t expect it this soon.”

Cecily turned to look at me with a questioning glance. I shook my head at her. She was better off not giving away her own information unless she needed to.

I wanted to know what Cecily knew, but that didn’t mean I wanted Elorato know what Cecily knew.

At the moment, Elora probably believed that Cecily had the least information out of anyone, and that meant she would not register as a threat.

I preferred to keep it that way.

“You knew there was going to be an attack on the government and you didn’t do anything about it?” Sera asked.

Elora shook her head. “I didn’t say that. Certain individuals were warned or evacuated, not just Corin.”

“You didn’t warn me.” Sheridan folded their arms.

“I didn’t think you’d be a target. I suspected they’d be hitting a council meeting. Normally, the group responsible tries to avoid collateral damage.”

“They were avoiding collateral damage,” Sera said, “At least more than they pretended to be.”

We all turned toward her.

Patrick frowned. “Uh, Sera, I don’t think sending the daughter of a god beast to a party is avoiding damage.”

Sera shook her head. “It certainly was. How closely were you watching Mizuchi?”

“Can you please not be vague, Sera?” Cecily asked. “I’m not handling this well.”

Sera frowned. “Sorry. Mizuchi was able to paralyze everyone in the room with a single spell. She only used that spell once: to deliver her speech without interruption. She obliterated the people on the stage. After that? Her attacks were more focused. She eliminated specific targets, and fought back against the people that attacked her.”

Sera paused, taking a breath. “She clearly had wide area of effect attack spells, but she never aimed them at the students. Even when she finally used her breath weapon, she directed it in a line. A shaper of her level could have made it fork, or jump to multiple targets, with ease. But she aimed it just at Marissa.

“Sure, Mara was fighting hard,” she offered, giving Marissa a nod of acknowledgement, “But if Mizuchi’s goal was to kill everyone, she could have spread out that breath attack. Or used it more than once.”

“You’re saying...if we hadn’t fought, she wouldn’t have ‘urt us at all?” Marissa sounded terribly dejected.

I stepped in. “Maybe she wouldn’t have hurt the students, sure, but when you stepped in she was just about to kill Teft and Meltlake. They were both down and bleeding. And I checked — they’re both alive. Badly hurt, but alive. You saved them both.”

Marissa’s expression shifted to resolve, and she sat a little straighter after that.

And I turned toward Patrick. “And you saved her in turn. No one needs to regret getting involved. But I think Sera’s right.”

“Yes, Mizuchi was obviously holding back,” Elora waved a hand dismissively. “She could have just turned into a ten story tall serpent and rolled around on us if she wanted everyone in the room dead. That was a message, as she said in the beginning. But that group isn’t usually as messy about this sort of thing.”

“You’ve mentioned ‘that group’ a couple times now.” Keras adjusted his mask. It was strange to see it on him indoors. “Who are we dealing with?Tails of Orochi? No, I suppose it’d be the Scales of Seiryu if it was Mizuchi...”

“It’s neither. Unfortunately, I can’t tell you about them.”

Keras frowned. “That’s what you’re going to be vague about? I think that’s pretty critical to this discussion.”

Elora sighed, then adjusted her necklace and pulled down the high collar of her dress to expose her throat.

There was a glowing runic mark on her neck. The source of that second aura I’d seen under her dress earlier.

I’d wondered why she had two magical items in the same spot. She didn’t— this was something different.

And the rune looked an awful lot like the kind of brand that Katashi had put on my hand. The kind that I’d been told could explode if I didn’t complete a certain objective in time.

“When I say I can’t tell you, I mean I can’t tell you.”

Keras leaned closer, narrowing his eyes. “Well.” His jaw tightened. “That changes things, now doesn’t it?”

The implication was fairly obvious, but I had so many questions.

But how does it —Cecily leaned closer. “How does the mark work? Does it respond to certain words? Or is someone listening to your conversations to remotely activate it? Oh! What if we just asked you yes or no questions?”

I blinked at Cecily.

“I can’t discuss it.” Elora adjusted her dress and necklace, covering the mark. “Now you know there are some things I can’t talk about, however, and my reason for it.”

Cecily frowned. “Could you maybe just write down what your restrictions are? Then maybe we could find a work around.”

“It won’t work,” Sheridan explained. “She can’t talk about it, but I understand the general theory. Brands like that are designed to read your thoughts. Attempts to deliberately circumvent the brand will result in increasing levels of danger to the person with it.”

Elora nodded and made a gesture of thanks to her sibling.

“Okay,” Keras sighed. “So you can’t tell us about them, but this was apparently non-standard. Fine. Where can we get more information?”

“Tristan,” I offered. “He seemed to know about what was going to happen.”

“But, if Tristan really is alive, he’d be in the spire, right?” Patrick asked. “And we wouldn’t know where?”

“The latter portion is indeed a concern,” Elora replied. “I can get us inside, but I always used a Wayfarer to contact him once we arrived. That Wayfarer is now dead. It might be possible to locate him with a Diviner, but my Diviner is also dead.”

I winced at that, remembering what had happened when Saffron attacked. “I may be able to contact him if we get inside.”

“A ‘maybe’ isn’t good enough in this case. Even if you could get him a message, he may not be able to reply. Given how things have gone, I suspect he is no longer in the position he once was.” Elora replied.

“And that position is...?” Sera asked.

“I can’t talk about it.” Elora motioned to her neck.

Sera grunted in irritation. “Fine. Then we need a Diviner.”

“Even if you had one, I wouldn’t be interested in taking anyone into the spire right now. The situation inside has clearly changed, and that means it could be dangerous.” Elora shook her head. “Moreover, Corin described Mizuchi as having been banished. Is that right?”

“That’s the word that Vellum used,” I confirmed.

“When you banish a creature, it goes back to its home. For creatures like elementals, that means their home plane.”

“But for a spire monster,” Sheridan added, “That means their spire.” “Meaning that Mizuchi is back home.” I nodded at the logic. “And if wego in there, she might come after us.”

“It’s a risk I wouldn’t want to take,” Elora explained, “Not unless there is no alternative. And I believe we can find several superior alternatives.”

Keras gave me an apologetic look. “You should probably just leave the country for a while.”

I blinked. “Seriously?”

Elora turned to nod in agreement to Keras. “Even if Mizuchi leaves the spire again, I doubt she’ll leave Valia proper. I’ve never seen a spire monster go that far outside of their territory. Corin would likely be safer away from here.”

I shook my head. “Fleeing might save our lives, but it’s not going to actually solve anything. Other people are going to keep dying until we figure out what’s going on here.”

Sera turned toward me. “And you think we’re the best equipped to handle that? Aside from Mara, we got demolished when we tried to fight Mizuchi.

And from what I hear, your fight with Saffron didn’t go much better.” I made a noncommittal grunt in response.

“It’s not always about fighting,” Keras offered, surprising me. “But even if what you’re pursing is a diplomatic solution, you’d probably be better offwaiting. Leave for a few months. Let the monsters lose your trail. In about two weeks, I should be able to get us some help.”

He gave me a meaningful look.

Meaning that he can leave the country and get equipment? Oh, no, he’s talking about the Jaden Box.

When I’d first picked up the box, the documentation had said that it would take about two hundred days to recharge. It had been a lot less than that.

When I’d used it to try to summon Keras, I’d hoped that it might use less mana when trying to summon someone close by. That was still possible, and would require further testing, but it didn’t work in that case.

I considered his offer. “In terms of help... Could you get us someone else as powerful as you are?”

He nodded. “Potentially. Maybe more than one person, if we’re lucky enough that some of my friends are in the same place.”

That was a tempting offer, but assuming the two hundred day limit was accurate — and I couldn’t assume it was wrong — we were still more than a hundred days away.

If this mystery organization was acting now, they could do a lot of damage in that time period.

Cecily turned to me. “You should go to your mother.”

Mother?...

Something clicked in my mind.

Tristan had been trying to get me to go to Dalenos, too. That was where Mother presumably was.

Did that mean she was involved in all this?I wasn’t sure I could handle another family member being involved in this madness.

Or was he just trying to get us both to be in a safe location?“Uh, I like Lady Lyran and all,” Patrick offered, “But I’m not sure how that has anything to do with this?”

“Lady Lyran is on the city council. She may be a target, like I was,” Elora offered. “It would be kind of us to inform her that there may be a threat.”

That was an explanation, but not the only one. But I wasn’t convinced thatElora was one of Mizuchi’s targets in the first place.

Elora had left almost immediately after hitting Mizuchi with that powerful attack. Maybe that was because of how exhausted she was — she still hadn’t fully recovered from fighting Saffron — but maybe she just wanted to make a show of contributing before she left.

Mizuchi hadn’t had a chance to attack Elora, so there was no way for me to know if she would have if she’d had the chance.

I couldn’t trust Elora on this. Not when she’d presumably been one of the people who had started this in the first place.

Going to my mother was a potential route for getting answers, although it was somewhat less likely now that I’d seen that Elora had some kind of brand. If my mother worked for the same organization, maybe she would have one as well.

In retrospect, I didn’t have any good information on the brand at all. I just had the word of Elora and her sibling.

I trusted Sheridan a little more. They’d helped both me and Sera, after all.

But their loyalty was probably to their sister.

“Lady Lyran?” Keras frowned, turning to me. “I think your mother tried to have me arrested last time we met.”

“Yes, that was her with me,” Elora confirmed, making things more awkward for me. I’d been trying not to let Keras in on that little fact.

That added another complication I’d have to deal with. “Sorry about that.

I’m sure I can clear that up.” I turned to Elora, deliberately changing the subject. “You were just in Dalenos. Were you with my mother?”

Elora shook her head. “No, but we were on related business. I have a feeling I could locate her, as long as she isn’t in the spire at the moment.”

Keras raised a hand in a gesture for me to pause. “I didn’t realize it was Dalenos you were talking about heading to in order to meet your mother. I’m not one to hold a grudge, but I didn’t exactly have a good experience last time I was in Dalenos. I can’t go with you if you’re heading there.”

“Katashi didn’t clear your name?” I asked.

“Oh, that was taken care of. But I may have made some personal enemies, and I’d rather avoid any conflicts with them. Believe me, that wouldn’t be good for anyone involved.” Keras reached up and adjusted his mask, which just made it look more lopsided.

I couldn’t laugh at how silly that looked, though. He’d just added a whole other complication.

I put my head in my hands, thinking. People chatted around me for a moment, but I focused on my own thoughts.

What did I want to do?Visiting my mother might get me a few answers, but I didn’t know if I could even find her.

And if Keras wouldn’t come with me, I’d be losing one of my strongest allies.

While I had Keras with me, I had a real chance to climb high in the spire. I also currently had access to Elora, who could get us inside, and a full team worth of people that I trusted.

I didn’t know if I’d ever get that kind of opportunity again.

Moreover, Tristan’s last letter had made it sound like something had gone wrong. If he was in danger, that made it an even higher priority for me to meet him as quickly as possible.

I would never forgive myself if I had a chance to see Tristan and I missed it because I’d chosen the safer path.

“Okay,” I said, addressing the room, “Elora is right that we should send Mother a message. But if we want any real answers, any real solutions, we’re not going to find them outside the spire.”

“Well,” Elora said, “I’m not going back in there. Not while I’m very likely to be toward the top of Mizuchi’s list of delicious morsels.”

I took a breath. “Can you teleport me inside without you?” Elora frowned. “Theoretically possible, but I don’t like it.” “Because you wouldn’t get anything out of it?” Keras asked.

Elora rolled her eyes. “Well, there’s that, obviously. But also because it has a high chance to get Corin killed, and Tristan would hold me responsible for that.”

“I’ll take responsibility,” I said. “I can send him a message explaining that.”

Elora laughed. “You don’t know your brother very well.” That...hurt.

Sera intervened on my behalf. “Of course not. He hasn’t seen his brother in five years, and now he believes Tristan may be involved in a mass killing.

One that you played a role in initiating.”

Elora didn’t get angry, as I’d expected. She just waved a hand. “True, true.

Fine. I can send you into the spire. But not without a full team that has a method of locating Tristan. We’re doing this right or we’re not doing it at all.”

I nodded at that. “I can work with that.”

“This...that’s a mistake, Corin.” Cecily shuffled her chair closer to mine. “You really should go see your mother. I’m sure she could explain all this. And with a vastly lower risk?”

“I’m very tired of running away from danger, Cecily.” “That doesn’t mean you should run toward it.”

She had a point.

I didn’t like risks, either. Normally, I avoided them as much as possible. I planned for every contingency I could think of, even ones that weren’t likely.

But in this case, I had resources at my disposal that I was likely to lose, and Keras’ mention about Dalenos had made it clear that it was possible for me to lose those resources at any time.

Everything had started with Tristan — with his attack on Tenjin in the spire.

And now, all evidence was pointing toward that situation coming to a resolution. One that I suspected wouldn’t end well for my brother, unless I took the steps to help him.

The spire had been sealed shut again.

Someone didn’t want anyone finding something that was inside.

Maybe Katashi had sealed it again himself, to prevent any interference in the investigation. But even if that was the case, the fact that the spire hadn’t been unsealed after another couple months meant something had to have gone wrong.

I needed to learn what was happening inside the spire. Tristan was my highest priority, but I also needed to learn what was going on with Tenjin still being missing and Mizuchi being on the loose.

I wasn’t going to get that much information anywhere else.

“For what it’s worth,” Sheridan lifted their glass and swished it around,looking thoughtful, “I agree with Corin.”

“Of course you do,” Elora sighed. “You always have to disagree with me.” “While you’re quite right, sister, I have other reasons.” Sheridan took a sipfrom their glass, then set it down. “For one, I don’t believe finding Corin’smother in Dalenos is likely to work. She’s most likely climbing the spire — and if she is, she’d be just as hard to find as Tristan, if not harder.”

“And if she’s outside?” Elora asked.

“If Lady Lyran is outside of the spire, we can simply contact her via a Wayfarer. I’ll send a message immediately telling her what happened, and to be careful. She’ll know what to do.”

“Thanks.” I nodded to Sheridan. “I’d appreciate that.”

“You’re welcome. Now, beyond that, I believe we’ve been overlooking the real issue. Whoever is organizing all this madness is almost certainly within the spire. Even if that isn’t Tristan, we should be looking for them if we wish to stop this.”

Elora waved a hand in a conciliatory gesture. “You do have a point.” “I still don’t think he should go...” Cecily’s voice was quiet, almost awhisper.

I dismissed that line of thought for the moment. “Sorry, Cecily. I’ll be careful. But there are good reasons I need to do this. For one, while Mizuchi may be in there, there’s a good chance that someone equally dangerous is hunting me out here.”

“Ah, yes. She hadn’t heard about Saffron.” Elora raised a hand to right below her lips. “I suppose I can see your logic. He did seem the vindictive sort.”

Cecily frowned. “Who could possibly be as dangerous as Mizuchi?” “He’s a child of the Tyrant in Gold,” I explained.

“...Oh.” She blinked, then adjusted her glasses. “Wait, really?” I gave her a gesture of acknowledgement.

“Wow. You have had a terrible few weeks.”

“That does raise an important question, though.” Patrick’s hand went to his chest, though I couldn’t tell if he was doing it consciously or not. “What happens if we do run into Mizuchi in the spire?”

“I think she might be weak against lightning,” I offered. “When youreflected that lightning attack, it seemed to hurt her more than anything else. And she’s supposed to be a water serpent, so that would make sense.”

“I thought that, too. I hit her with lightning again right after that.” Patrick shook his head. “It bounced right off.”

I remembered that. Strange. Even though Patrick’s spell was obviously much weaker than Mizuchi’s breath, it probably should have done something if it was her elemental weakness. “Hrm.”

“How does a water serpent cast lightning spells, anyway?” Patrick asked. “I mean, shouldn’t that be, like, impossible?”

“I wouldn’t be surprised if she has all forms of elemental magic. God beasts break a lot of the rules of what you’d expect from normal monsters. Their children often have unusual capabilities as well,” Elora offered. “It would be better if you abandon any ideas of beating Mizuchi in a straight fight. She wasn’t even using her true form.”

That was a valid answer, but a bit dismissive. Even if children of the god beasts had unusual abilities, I assumed they had to have some kind of logic behind them.

If she could use types of magic that other creatures of her element couldn’t, there had to be a source for that.

“Even if we can’t beat her, that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t discuss tactics.” I shook my head. “We don’t have to win in a straight fight, but I’d be more confident facing her if we had a plan.”

Elora gestured for me to slow down. “You’re better off retreating if you see her. That banishment spell — if it really was a banishment — might keep her confined to a specific area. It probably will also make her weaker for a while. Banishment is powerful magic.”

Banishment was from a restricted attunement, if I remembered right. That meant Vellum had a second attunement she hadn’t told me about. That wasn’t exactly surprising, given her personality.

I hope she’s...if she died, it would be my fault, wouldn’t it?I tried not to think about that, refocusing on the conversation.

Elora’s comments had given me another idea. “We’ll plan to retreat if we see her. Or, alternatively, I might have a way to get her to talk to us.”

Elora raised an eyebrow at that. “Care to share?”

Time to use a small secret to hide the larger one.

I slipped off the glove on my right hand. “I have a restricted attunement.

Arbiter.”

Almost all of them already knew about it. It was a minimal risk. Elora and Cecily were the only exceptions.

Cecily leaned down, tilting her head to look closely at it. “Wow, what is that? I’ve never seen an attunement like this. Is it like that weird thing on her neck?”

“Funny story, it started out that way, but no. Katashi gave it to me. And as it happens, it gives me a degree of authority over certain types of monsters. If I can find a monster inside the spire that knows more about what is going on, I might be able to use this to convince them to help.”

I was stretching a little there, but only a tad. Researcher had indicated that she was obligated to help an Arbiter — there were probably others like her.

“Huh.” Cecily poked a finger at it. “What’s it do?”

“That’s a little outside of this discussion, dear,” Elora offered. “But for what it’s worth, I think talking to monsters might be a good idea. Talking to Mizuchi, however, is a terrible idea. She’s simply too dangerous.”

“Sorry, sorry. It’s just so interesting!” Cecily leaned back in her chair. “Can I ask you about it later?”

I nodded to her. “Sure.”

She looked positively gleeful at the idea.

“Okay, so, spire.” Patrick tapped on the table. “I’m going. Who’s going?” I frowned. “You’re still pretty badly hurt, Pa—”

“Nope. You don’t get to say that.” I noticed that Patrick’s hand went instinctively to his chest, where his injury was, in spite of his objection. “I didn’t go with you last time, and you nearly died. You didn’t tell me when you were being abducted,” he shot an angry look at Elora, “and you nearly died again. There is no way you’re leaving me behind this time. None.”

I took a breath. “Okay. Patrick is going.”

Patrick nodded, setting his jaw, but looking slightly mollified at my agreement.

I turned toward Keras. “I didn’t ask before, but honestly, I don’t think there’s any chance we can make this work without you.”

Keras waved a hand sleepily. “Of course I’m going.”

“Well, if ‘ese goin’, and Patrick’s goin’...” Marissa grinned. “I suppose I’m goin’, too.”

Sheridan shot Marissa a stern look. “Patrick is on the mend, but he only has one injury. You are in no condition to be going into a spire.”

Marissa leaned forward, lifting the one fist that wasn’t currently covered in bandages. “Look, I’ve still got one good punchin’ hand. More than good enough.”

“Marissa, you’re the strongest physical fighter here, aside from Keras,” I said, “But I agree with Sheridan on this. You need to recover first.”

Marissa wrinkled her nose at me. “What about your regeneration ring?Can’t you slap that thing on me for a few days?”

“I don’t think we’re going to wait that long before we go in,” I explained. “At least, I’d rather get in there right away.”

“Moreover, a ring is not going to repair the kind of severe bone damage you suffered,” Sheridan explained. “Not quickly, anyway. I can work on healing you a bit faster, but it will not be immediate, and it would be much less comfortable if I speed it up.”

Keras turned to me. “You should give Marissa the few days she needs. You could all use a few days of rest after what you just experienced.”

Truthfully?I wanted to go right then.

Every day I waited was more of a chance for something else to happen.

For something to get worse.

But I looked around, and I saw precisely zero faces supporting my stance on that subject.

If I was going to get my way about going to the spire, I had to know how to concede a few points here and there.

“Okay. Fine. If we give it a few days, maybe Derek would be willing to come along as well.”

Cecily leaned over and whispered to me, “Who’s Derek?” “Derek Hartigan. Emerald-level Soulblade.” I whispered back. “Oooh. Fancy.”

I rolled my eyes.

“You still need a Diviner,” Sera noted.

I nodded, while simultaneously noting that Sera had not volunteered to join us in the spire.

Given how things had gone last time, I didn’t blame her. I could ask her privately about it later.

“I have an idea on that,” I told her.

“Someone you can trust?” Elora asked. “That could survive in the spire?” I considered that. “Better than any of us, in a way.”

“Who do you mean?”

I smiled. “It’ll be a surprise. I’ll introduce you later if she agrees.”

I was feeling pretty good about my plans when I heard a knock at the chamber door.

Elora went and opened it. One of her household staff was standing there, and he leaned over and whispered something to Elora.

She frowned, turned toward us, and said, “Magnus Cadence is at the front door, asking to see his son.”

Sera and I exchanged looks.

Patrick stood up first. “Corin, you want me to go talk to him while you take care of this?”

More than anything in the world.

I took a breath.

“Thank you, Patrick. But I should talk to him.”

Nonono.

I stood up.

Patrick took a few steps closer. “...Do you want me to go with you, at least?”

I looked at him quizzically.

I hadn’t said anything, had I? How much did he know?But I just shook my head. “Yeah... I think I’d like that. Thanks.”

Sera turned toward me. “I should probably go with you, too.”

I glanced at her. “If he said he wanted to talk to me, specifically, he probably doesn’t know you’re here. You’re probably better off keeping it that way. He’s not going to be happy about any of this.”

“Fair.” She frowned. “But I’ll be here if you need me.” “Thanks.” I meant it when I said that.

But I was also relieved that she wasn’t coming along. This was not going to be pleasant.

Sera hung back reluctantly as Patrick and I headed to the door.

***Magnus Cadence sat on a couch in the guest area in the entrance, sipping tea.

He looked so...normal. Composed.

If I didn’t know him, I wouldn’t have been frightened in the slightest.

As it was, I jolted and paused in my step as soon as he set his tea cup down and stood up.

He stood, waiting for us to come closer, appraising.

When we were within arm’s reach, he nodded. “You seem mostly intact.” “Hello, Father. I’m sorry we didn’t—” I began.

“Quiet, Son.” He raised a hand to silence me. “I haven’t given you permission to speak.”

This was not going to be good.

“Now, imagine you’re in my position. You receive a message late last night that the winter ball — attended by very nearly every student of Lorian Heights — has been assaulted by one of the most powerful monsters in existence.”

He clasped his hands together. “You listen, agonizing, as you learn that the main ballroom, where the first-year students were sitting, was the center of the devastation. You recall, of course, that your two living children are both first-year students.”

“And so, of course, you want to rush to the scene. But it’s late at night in winter, and there are no trains running. You hire a carriage. You arrive to find many wounded still being treated, and others rushed to the hospital.”

He winced, turning his head to the side. “You ask, but no one can tell you where your children are.”

His hands tighten. “You had hoped, at first, that they were simply not in attendance. But they are on the guest list. And one of the guards even remembers someone of Sera’s description entering the party with a summoned monster. Apparently, she made quite a stir. But now she’s missing. They both are.”

“You go to the hospital next.” His hands were fists now. “And then you go to the morgue.”

He takes a breath. “After looking through the bodies that were too badly burned to be identified, you believe your children are not there. You return to the hospital, and are fortunate enough to find an old colleague. Lord Teft informed me that he last saw you fighting with Mizuchi, a decision so irrational that I cannot even begin to comprehend how you came to that state. But, regardless, he believed you had survived. He had heard that you were helping Sheridan Theas with the injured.”

Father’s eyes narrowed. “You haven’t told me anything about having a healing attunement, so I assumed that was in error. Surely, you wouldn’t fail to tell me about something as significant as a second attunement? But Teft was correct about one thing, at least. Here you are. House Theas.”

He glanced from side to side. Father, Patrick, and I were the only ones in the room.

Father nodded to himself, and then punched me straight in the jaw. I stumbled backward and fell.

My lip was bleeding.

“Corin!” Patrick stepped back, eyes widening. Then he rushed to kneel down and check on me.

At first, I was simply startled.

He’s never hit me in public before.

But that was followed by a moment of relief.

...Which means that someone finally saw him hit me.

My father took a step closer, wiping his fist on his coat. “Insolent child. You are lucky I didn’t use steel. I thought I’d taught you better than this.”

Patrick reached down and pulled me to my feet.

I took a breath, then looked away. “Yes, sir. I’m sorry. I should have—”

He hit me again, in the ribs this time. “I still haven’t given you permission to speak.”

I doubled over from the force of the blow. But as much as it hurt?It hurt a hell of a lot less than it had when I hadn’t had two shrouds and a pair of shield sigils.

I straightened, holding my chest and coughing.

“Sir, with respect, that’s enough.” Patrick stepped between us. “I’m sure that Corin didn’t mean any harm. He was taking care of the rest of us all night.”

Father raised his fist, but not toward me this time. I caught his hand.

Magnus Cadence turned his gaze to me, then he raised his other fist. “Do not test me, Son.”

I narrowed my eyes, my pulse quickening. “Were you about to hit Patrick?”

He tensed his jaw. “I will discipline my children as I see fit, and I will not allow some peasant to question—”

Haste.

I was still getting used to using the Haste spell in a fight. I wasn’t very good at maintaining my accuracy with it.

But when all I wanted to do was hit someone very hard, very fast? It was great for that.

I punched Magnus Cadence.

I punched him a lot.

In a few seconds, he fell back, holding his stomach. “You’ll regret—”

Don’t give him a chance to move. No chance to cast.

No quarter.

Jump.

The ring of jumping activated. I slammed my fist into his jaw. He didn’t budge in the slightest.

In the moment I’d taken to close the distance, his defensive instincts must have kicked in. His body was wrapped in a translucent field of energy now, visible to the naked eye. Not a mere shroud – a projection of armor, created with a Shaper attunement.

And, unlike a shroud, an armor spell was perfectly capable of stopping a punch entirely.

I took a step back, gripping my knuckles. I’d bruised them on the impact.

Magnus simply stared at me for a moment, then reached into the pocket of his coat and withdrew a handkerchief. He wiped the blood away from his lips from when I’d hit him the first time, then raised a hand to his chin. “You’ve chosen an odd time to grow a backbone, Son.”

“You threatened my friend.” I felt my whole body tense as I braced myself for another strike.

Magnus shook his head. “No, Son. I was going to discipline your retainer, as is my right. If you wish for this,” he waved at Patrick, “to be your retainer, he will need to bear the burdens of all that entails. And you,” he turned his eyes back to me, “will need to remember one of the first lessons I taught you.”

Magnus took a breath, staring me down. “Never start a fight you can’t possibly finish.”

He didn’t move to attack.

That was bad. I would have been ready for a swing or a blast of mana. He sounded calm, collected.

That was more terrifying than if he’d flown into a rage. If I’d simply made him angry, he’d probably stop at just hitting me.

But if he was thinking critically, he could do something more harmful.

I took a step to block his view of Patrick, who still looked too startled to know how to handle the situation.

I began to charge transference mana in my right hand. Transference countered enhancement, which was what Magnus used for his armor spell. If I hit him hard enough—I’d spent too much time thinking. Something hit my back, knocking me toward Magnus. Then Magnus slammed another fist into me, reinforced with enhancement mana.

I hit the floor hard.

When I was pushing myself to my feet, I noticed my father had drawn a cane from his belt. “You’ll stay down if you know what’s best for you.”

I let the mana in my right hand dissipate. I couldn’t punch him from this distance. I pushed myself into a sitting position.

Magnus pointed toward Patrick with his cane. “Step forward, Patrick.” Patrick trembled for just a moment, then nodded, more to himself thanMagnus. His voice was weak, but he managed a plea. “Please...just don’t hurt Corin any more, sir.”

“What are you to my son?”

Patrick answered immediately. “I’m his retainer, sir.”

“Good. At least you were listening. I trust you’re aware of what being a retainer entails?”

I started to stand up. “Father, this isn’t—” “Quiet,” Magnus hissed.

“I protect him, sir.” He looked at the cane, then raised his eyes to meet my father’s directly.

Magnus turned his head to me. “I don’t relish doing this, Son. But you need to learn proper respect and to remember your place. And it would seem that disciplining you directly is no longer sufficient.”

Magnus raised his cane.

“That will be quite enough, Father.” Sera’s voice was still rough from the damage to her throat, but easy enough to understand.

I hadn’t noticed when she’d stepped into the room.

From the way his head swung and his expression, I don’t think Magnus had noticed her, either.

“Sera.” Father lowered his cane. “This matter does not concern you.”

Sera stepped closer, glancing down to me, then back to Magnus. “I’d respectfully disagree, Father. I’m certain my dear brother meant no offense, and we are guests here. Perhaps it would be best not to make a poorimpression on our hosts?”

Magnus waved a hand dismissively. “Please, Sera. If I told Edrigan Theas that I needed to discipline my child and his retainer, he’d gladly hand me his own cane.”

“Perhaps outside, but not on the carpet.”

There weren’t actually any bloodstains on the carpet that I can see, but Sera had managed something important — she’d gotten him to look.

And after that moment of doubt, Magnus slipped his cane back onto his belt. “Perhaps you have a point. It has been some time since I’ve visited, and I would not wish to make a poor impression.” He glanced down toward me, his eyes full of disdain. “I trust you’ve learned your lesson?”

I nodded slowly. “Of course, Father.”

“Good.” He glanced to Sera, then back to me. “I will be going to speak to Edrigan. I trust that by the time I’m finished, you two will be ready to return home.”

Sera cut in before I could. “We will, of course, return as soon as possible. But both Corin and I have injuries from Mizuchi’s attack that require further treatment. And I’m certain you know that Sheridan Theas is one of the most skilled healers available. We would be unwise to turn aside their hospitality.”

Magnus waved a hand. “Very well, you may remain as long as you need further treatment. But I expect no further delays.”

“Of course, Father.” Sera smiled sweetly.

Magnus turned to Patrick, looking him up and down. “You may continue to serve my son.”

With that, he walked out of the room, heading to another wing of the house.

I breathed a sigh of relief, letting just a bit of the tension out of my shoulders.

Sera and Patrick scrambled to help me to my feet. “...Thanks,” I managed.

“Come on,” Sera said. “Let’s go get you cleaned up.”

***Sera and I found a private room to talk after that. Patrick was graceful enough to give us a few minutes to ourselves.

“Corin, that was...” “Routine,” I replied.

She drew in a sharp breath. “I saw scars. Every once in a while, when you rolled up your sleeves, or your shirt got pulled down a little—”

I looked away. “Stop. I don’t want to talk about it.” “How long, Corin?”

I tightened my fists. “...A long time. It got worse when Mother left. Much worse.”

“...Why would anyone do that to their child?”

I shook my head. “He called it training. Sometimes, it was a part of training... or at least that’s what he used to disguise it.” I shook my head. “Other times...he was just so angry. So angry that Mother left. That Tristan was gone.”

She put a hand on my arm. I pulled away. “I’m so sorry, Corin. I didn’t know.”

I nodded. “I know.” I took a breath. “I wish you never had to find out.”

Sera looked away. “When he first told me that he was my father...” She raised a hand to wipe her eyes. “I was so happy.”

The tears came more clearly after that. “I was happy.”

***We took a little while longer to go back to the room where I had been staying and find me a change of clothes.

Sera got some water to help me wash the blood off my face. It was nothing new to me.

Routine, as I’d said.

Except that I’d fought back this time. That was dangerous.

But I had no regrets.

***I spent a little while longer just sitting with Sera. Trying to talk about otherthings, to get my mind off of what had happened.

It didn’t work.

I went and found Patrick. “Thank you.”

He blinked at me. “For what?”

“For being there. For trying to step in.” I shook my head. “I should have done more.” He looked away.

“No, you were perfect.” I sighed. “If you would have fought him, he would have killed you.”

“You really think so?”

I nodded. “He’s a professional duelist. I managed to surprise him, but I never really had a chance. He could have killed us both if he had wanted to.”

“In the middle of Elora’s house?”

I shrugged. “It would have been messy, but he probably could have gotten away with it. Don’t know.” I shook my head. “Either way, it’s better that you didn’t fight him. Still...thanks.”

“I’m your retainer, Corin. If I can’t do something like that, what good am I?”

I laughed. “You’re absurd, Patrick. You’re a great friend to me, even without throwing yourself in harm’s way. But the fact that you did...well, it matters.” I took a breath. “I’m not good at this kind of talk. Can we go do something else?”

“Sure. I think Cecily has been trying to find a chance to talk to you in private.”

Well, that was awkward in a different way, but at least it was the kind of awfulness that just had to do with political secrets and maneuvering. Nothing I wasn’t used to at this point.

“Okay. I’ll go talk to her.”

***I found Cecily still in the dining area, then asked her to come with me to talk to me privately. We went back to the bedroom I’d been assigned. Sera had left by then, rejoining the others.

“You’re really going to go to the spire? That’s your plan?”

I nodded. “You know more than you’ve told me.” “Obviously. You know more than you’ve been saying, too.” That was true. “Let me fill you in on a few things.”

I spent a solid hour catching her up. Her eyes widened when I explained what had happened with Professor Orden, and again when I told her about my fight with Jin.

She was an engaged audience.

Better that than her being engaged to me, at least. “Your turn.”

She blinked. “I...wow. You really fought Professor Orden? And a Child of the Tyrant?”

“Yeah. Neither experience was fun. I need to know, though — what’s your place in all this?”

She reached into a bag at her side and retrieved a book.

I didn’t even need to see the words to recognize it. The colors and dimensions were identical. “You’re kidding.”

“I found it during my Judgment. The Voice of the Tower started guiding me, giving me some directions,” she explained. “Then he told me he was Tristan Cadence, and that he was trapped inside the spire. I told Yunika. She already knew.”

There were multiple important bits of information there. Especially the word “trapped”.

I had to know more about that. “Did he explain what he meant when he said he was trapped?”

She shook her head. “He implied there were things he couldn’t say. Maybe he has a mark like the one that Elora does?”

That wouldn’t be surprising. If Elora’s mark was real, then maybe all the members of their faction had one?If so, it would mean that even finding Tristan might not get me the answers I wanted. But if it didn’t, getting inside the spire still gave me several other options. Especially with the team I was planning to bring with me.

“Okay. How did Yunika know about it?”

“She’s been climbing for the last couple years. Apparently, at one point,she was separated from her group...and Tristan appeared. He saved her from a monster. Like a hero.”

That was very interesting. It was the first thing I’d heard that implied that Tristan could physically appear in person in the sections of the tower that climbers explored.

I’d been assuming he was probably in the lower levels of the tower somewhere, in that administrative section that Researcher had alluded to.

It was possible that was still the case, though, and that he was simply able to move — or project illusions that looked like him, rather than just illusions that looked like a hovering cloak.

“And he, what, recruited her?”

Cecily shook her head. “No. He just warned her to stay away from the spire for a while, and to get her family out of the city before the end of the year. This was just a couple months ago. We’ve been preparing to leave, but Mom and Dad have been stubborn. They won’t believe Yunika, and she wouldn’t leave without them.”

That made sense, but it also raised the question of why Tristan didn’t recruit Yunika to whatever organization he was a part of.

Was he trying to keep her out of harm’s way?Or did she simply lack the skills he needed to be useful tool?I wasn’t sure I could believe what Cecily was telling me. She seemed genuine enough, but I’d been fooled before.

I also couldn’t guarantee that what Yunika had told Cecily was true. Maybe Yunika was working with Tristan, and simply wouldn’t tell her.

But for the moment, at least, Yunika sounded like a dead-end. I’d follow up with her directly for more information if I failed to find Tristan, but at the moment, Tristan and Elora were much more likely sources of information to pursue.

“Okay.” I nodded. “Do you want to come with us into the spire?”

Cecily gave me an awkward laugh. “Uh, I’m flattered, but I’m not really...” She shook her head. “I fought Mizuchi because I had to. But I don’t like fighting, Corin. I never have. And the spire? It’s terrifying in there. I don’t know how you can be so casual about going inside like this.”

“I prepare.” I tapped my head. “Mentally. Physically. Emotionally. And it’s still never enough. Not really. But if Tristan is in there? That’s where I need tobe.”

“And I can’t convince you to wait a few months? Get those allies that your masked friend talked about?”

I shook my head. “Bringing Keras’ friends in on this would just introduce more people that I couldn’t necessarily trust. As much as I like Keras, I don’t know his true motives, or even what he is. I can trust that his primary goal right now seems to be to get in Katashi’s good graces, though, and that means he’s going to keep protecting me. With others, I can’t say the same. And I’m also just not willing to wait that long.”

Cecily sighed. “You’re still so stubborn.”

I nodded. “I know. Some things never change.”

She looked me straight in the eyes and said. “Yeah... You’re right. Some things never change.”

I’m pretty dense when it comes to things like that, but I’m pretty sure there was some sort of romantic implication in there.

So, I did the natural thing, said, “Okay, good talk. Bye for now,” and fled the room.

