CHAPTER VIII – THE MISSING GEM

A knock on my door in the middle of the night probably should have woken me up in a state of alarm, but I wasn’t sleeping. I had too much to think about.

So, when the knock sounded, I was only mildly alarmed, rather than severely. I did a quick roll out of my bed, drawing my sword, and then stared dangerously at the door before recalling that knocking was, in fact, a perfectly normal and acceptable form of alerting someone to your presence.

With that in mind, I lowered Selys-Lyann before heading to the door and swinging it open, braced for anything.

I found Patrick.

He was looking more than a little worn out, with deep bags under his eyes and a look of utter exhaustion on his face. I didn’t see any obvious injuries on him, unless one counted the patch of hair that was conspicuously missing and a small burn mark on his forehead. If he had any concern about seeing Selys-Lyann drawn, he didn’t show it. His expression brightened the moment he saw me. “Corin! I was afraid for a minute I might have had the wrong room.”

I turned to the wall and disabled the wards I’d written into it before waving for him to come inside. “What are you doing here so late? And where’s Mara? Is she okay?”

“Oh, she’s fine. She went to the girls room. She wanted to talk to you, but she was too tired. We both need sleep. Like, desperately.”

I nodded in understanding. “Washroom is right there if you need it.

There are two beds. Get some sleep if you need to.” “Will do. I’ll explain things in the morning.”

He went and washed up briefly, then collapsed on the bed. In spite of his snoring, I was glad to have his company.

I still reactivated the wards at the door before I went to sleep.

***I pestered him for information first thing in the morning. “So, how’d it go?”

“It was amazing! We made it a long way. Close to a dozen floors!”

I whistled in appreciation. “That’s impressive, Patrick. There are plenty of adults that never make it that far.”

“I know! It was thrilling. I mean, Keras helped a little. Okay, maybe more like a lot, toward the end. But Mara and I did all the heavy lifting for the first few floors — Keras thought it would be bad for us if we didn’t get any experience out of it.”

I nodded in understanding. That was generally how it was supposed to work with teachers escorting students through the spire. You know, when those teachers weren’t secretly planning to betray the whole group or that sort of thing.

It’s possible I was still a little bit annoyed with Professor Orden, even after all the time that had passed. Or maybe more than a little. I’d trusted her, and she…Ugh.

Anyway, Patrick filled me in on some of the floors that he’d gone through with Mara and Keras. I won’t spoil that, maybe they’ll tell the rest of us the whole story in detail later.

“Anyway, after we got past the second spire guardian, Keras sent us home. It was getting too dangerous for us at that point, and with the reset happening the next day, we thought it’d be more valuable to start over from the bottom if we wanted to do any at all.”

I nodded. “So, you’re feeling up for going back there?”

“Yeah, I think so. The floors will be different from what we went through, but assuming they’re about the same level of difficulty, I think the five of us could probably make it through the fifth floor without any help.”

“Five…? Oh, you’re including Cecily. That…uh, isn’t going to happen.”

“Oh? Why not?” He looked crestfallen.

“She’s doing a tour at Farren Labs for the next week. And, uh, I don’t think she’ll be going back to the spire any time soon.”

I took some time to fill him in on everything that had happened during my own week.

“Poor Cecily. I hope Deni can help.”

“Given what Sheridan was able to accomplish with Sera, I suspect this would be an easy task — it’s just a matter of whether or not they’re interested. We’ll see.”

“So…that leaves four of us, then. Assuming you and Sera want to go?” “That’s the plan. Unless you happened to get a Petitioner’s Token?”

Patrick shook his head. “No, but I think I know what Farren was talking about. This spooky spectre thing showed up after we beat each spire guardian and offered us a list of reward options. It was kind of strange. I picked up a couple things, but they’re packed in my bag. I’ll show you later!”

“Congratulations on your prizes, and on making it so far. If you think we can make it there safely, I’d like to try the climb and see if I can get a token. From there, I can try to enter the Arbiter’s Gate.”

Patrick frowned. “With four, it’s going to be a little trickier. I know Cecily wasn’t much of a combatant anyway, but even with five, we would have been undermanned. With four…we’re getting into risky territory.”

“I know. We may want to try recruiting or call Keras back down for an escort.”

“He’d probably rush to us in an emergency, but if I’m being honest, I don’t think I’d be comfortable asking him to start over. He already was slowing down a lot escorting us the first week. I think we should leave him alone.”

“Hm. Without Keras, you’re right — this is much more dangerous.

Okay. Let’s talk with the others and see if they have any ideas.”

With that, we got up for the day and headed to the other hotel room, then sat down to talk to Sera and Mara. Cecily was already gone for the day. “Corin! S’good to see you!” Mara smiled as we came through the door.

“Hug or no hug?”

“I’ll pass, but thank you for asking.” I gave her my best grin in return. “Sure thing. C’mon in, sit down with us. I’ve got stories to tell!”

She did, in fact, have stories to tell — she had a few places she’d been separated from Patrick, and a few other details to add to his story.

After she filled us in, I told her some of the things Sera hadn’t already shared about our own week, then we got back to discussing climbing options.

“Recruitment would be the obvious answer.” Sera was writing notes while we talked, but I couldn’t see them from my angle. “There are mercenary climbers to hire, for example, or we could try one of our new friends from Farren Labs.”

“Friends?” I asked. It was an honest question.

“I’ve made a few. And you could ask one of yours, too. Maybe Ashon.” I blinked. “Ashon isn’t my friend. He’s just someone I met.”

Sera raised an eyebrow. “Someone you met, that you spend a lot of time with, that you have shared interests with.”

“…Right, yes. In a work context. I wouldn’t call him a friend. I don’t have a lot of those.”

“What are you talking about? You have tons of friends.” We stared at each other for a moment.

“…I have…like two?” I pondered. “Three friends, maybe, if we’re counting you?”

She folded her arms. “Why wouldn’t you count me?” “You’re family. That’s a little different.”

Sera rolled her eyes. “Those things aren’t mutually exclusive, you know. And we were friends long before we knew about our heritage.”

I shrugged. “I guess. I consider family more important, I suppose, so it kind of supplants the other role in my mind.”

“I guess I can’t be too annoyed, then…but wait, two or three? That’s… what?”

I nodded, considering. “You’re right. Really, only Mara counts, since Patrick is a retainer now, and thus family.”

“Nonono.” Sera held up her hands. “Other direction. You have like, a lot more friends than that.”

I frowned. “Not really…?” “What about Roland?”

“He’s your friend, not mine. I’ve barely talked to him in years.” She stared at me. “Okay…what about Derek?”

“He’s more of a medium-term acquaintance.” “You lived with him for like half a year!”

I nodded. “And I owe him considerably for that.”

Sera groaned. She was getting frustrated, but I didn’t understand why. “Keras?”

I blinked. “Uh, no. He’s my bodyguard and something of a mentor figure, not a friend. How could we be friends? Aren’t you the one who’s always telling me he can’t be trusted?”

“I mean, yes, but that doesn’t mean…” Sera groaned, covering her eyes with her hands. “…Cecily?”

I froze. “That’s complicated. You know that. Maybe we’re friends, maybe…I don’t know. Let’s not talk about her.” Sera opened her mouth again, but I cut her off. “…Or Jin.”

Sera sighed. “You know, most people have a broader concept of what constitutes friendship.”

“She’s got a point, Corin,” Patrick cut in. “When we first met up at school, you didn’t seem to understand that we were friends.”

“Were we? I mean, we hadn’t seen each other for years.”

Patrick scratched the back of his head awkwardly. “That didn’t really matter to me, you know? We were friends when we were younger, so…”

I was momentarily stymied by that. “I, uh…sorry about that.”

He laughed. “It’s okay. Not blaming you or anything. Just…maybe think about that when you see Roland again?”

“I…uh, sure?” I shook my head. “Can we change the topic?”

Sera sighed. “Sure. I guess we’re getting off-track. Back to the main subject, then?”

“Please.” I tried to search back in my mind for what we’d been talking about, but I’d lost track. “So, we were discussing…”

“Climbing team members,” Sera added helpfully.

“Oh. Right.” I nodded. “Since you apparently have unparalleled social acumen, do you think there are any good options?”

Sera considered that for a moment, then frowned. “No, not really. Most of the people I’ve met at the lab are working full time. Or probable spies for Farren. Or both. Mostly both.”

“Mercenaries, then?” I asked.

“Don’t like the sound of that, if I’m bein’ honest,” Mara replied. “Gotta have trust when yer climbing, and I’m not gonna trust someone who is only with us for a few coins. Not when you two, if you’ll forgive me for sayin’ so, look like easy targets.”

Sera blinked. “You mean Corin and me? We’re from a duelist family!” “You’re from a rich family. ‘tuned or not, you look wealthy. Which, tosome, means you might look like you can’t fight. I mean, I know better, ‘course, but…”

I folded my arms. “I sincerely doubt most people would have that impression. Nobility comes with a higher likelihood of getting an attunement. Wouldn’t that make us appear more dangerous?”

“Not so much as you might think. Means that to some, you come across as, if you don’t mind me saying so, like the type to buy your way up. Now, a smart merc will figure out real quick that you’ve got sword trainin’, but if they came in with dark deeds to do, they might not change their mind.”

“I’m not sure robbing people is really all that common, Mara,” Patrick objected.

She gave a shrug. “Don’t know the numbers on it, but it does happen. And all I’m sayin’ is that if you look like you’re a couple teenagers on winter break with a lot of money to throw around…”

I sighed. “What other options do we have?”

“We could look for other students that are on vacation,” Patrick offered. “We weren’t the only ones on the train and there were other trains arriving over the week, too.”

“Caelford has some schools on break as well.” Sera noted. “It’s not a bad idea. If we could find some compatriots from back at home, that’d be perfect, but if not, I wouldn’t mind linking up with some Caelford students— or even recent graduates.”

“Where would we even look into that?” I asked.

“There are places where people post that they’re interested in climbing over near the spire,” Patrick explaining. “We could go look for some familiar names, or just people our age?”

Sera nodded to him. “Seems like a better idea than just sitting here, at least. We can discuss other options on the train.”

Patrick’s stomach grumbled. “…Breakfast first?”

“Breakfast first,” Mara agreed. “I haven’t had a real meal in a week.”

***We discussed more options as we ate, then Sera pulled me aside for a private talk.

“What are we conspiring about today?” I asked her.

She shook her head. “We’re not conspiring. This is fairly straightforward — you should write Father and tell him we’re heading into the spire.”

“Let me think about that…hmm, no. Going to go with no.”

Sera grimaced. “Corin. This is important.”

“You’re right, it is. It’s important that I be able to assert myself as an adult and say, ‘I am not telling my father a thing’.”

She shook her head. “You might be an adult, but he’s still your father. Our father. Do you remember how upset he was when we didn’t tell him about the ball?”

“Oh, you mean when I got into a fist fight with him in the middle of Elora Theas’ house? Yes, I vaguely recall that incident.”

“This isn’t funny.” She folded her arms. “You could have avoided all that if you’d kept in touch with him better.”

“Are you seriously blaming me for that?” I bristled, standing up straighter. “Are you kidding me?”

She raised her hands in a warding gesture. “No, no. Sorry, I’m…it’s obviously not your fault, but it could have been avoided. I’m…” She sighed. “Let me start over. He’s already lost one son to a spire. How do you think he’s going to feel when his other son goes into one in a foreign country without even telling him about it? What happens if you don’t come home?”

“I assume he’ll blame me for some kind of failure to follow his perfectly designed will. The man is an absolute mastermind at blaming other people for his own failings.”

“In this case, not writing him would be your failing.”

I shook my head. “That’s not a failing. That’s a choice.”

She folded her arms. “Corin. You’re being deliberately obstinate and obtuse. This is a simple, traditional thing to do.”

I rolled my eyes. “I have no obligation to pay into that tradition.” “Maybe not, but what does it cost you to at least let him know you’regoing?”

I clenched my hands into fists. “The cost is validating him. If I write him and say, ‘Greetings, honored father whom I respect and adore, I hope you will forgive me for going into this spire without asking for your permission’, he’ll take that as reinforcing his right to control me. And that,” I spat, “is unacceptable.”

“Oh, yes. That’s definitely how you’d write the letter. By all means, make a caricature of yourself to prove a point.”

“If you’re so invested, why don’t you write one for him yourself?”

“I already did!” She snapped. “I just haven’t sent it yet, because I was waiting — and hoping — that my brother would send one with me. Do you realize how angry he’s going to be if he finds out about this and I’m the only one who wrote to him?”

I sighed. “Then just don’t write him, and hopefully he won’t find out about it.”

“I don’t think that’s moral, Corin. And even if I did, he’s very likely to find out eventually.”

“How? It’s not like we’re going to go home and chat about our journey over a nice family dinner.” I growled. “That would require having a family.” “Corin…” She reached out, then pulled her hand back. “We do have afamily.”

I lowered my head. “Do we…? For years, that was all I wanted. To rescue Tristan, to bring him back home. Maybe Mother would come home, then. Maybe Father would stop trying to…train me. Even back then, I knew it was unrealistic, but I still had to motivate myself somehow. Without something to believe in, what point was there to keep doing anything at all?”

“Corin…”

“It’s okay.” I took a shuddering breath, then looked up and gave her a fake smile. “No, wait. I’m lying to myself again. It’s not okay. It was never going to be okay. I might be okay, or you might be okay, but the family? It’s not going to be okay.”

“…How long have you been feeling like this?”

“It’s been building for a long time, but…I think the key was when I found out that Father was screening the letters you and Mother were sending me. Of all the things he did to me…I think, in some ways, that was the cruelest. He deliberately sought to stop me from having connections with anyone else. He made himself the center of my world and cut off any chance of escape.” I shook my head. “So, no, Sera. He doesn’t get a letter from me. He already stole enough of them for a lifetime. He doesn’t get a thing from me.”

Sera shook her head. “You…maybe he doesn’t deserve it, but if you don’t write him…there are going to be consequences. He’s going to be angry, Corin. More than last time.”

I turned my gaze to meet hers. “Then don’t send him your letter, and we’ll swear the others to secrecy. He’ll never know.”

“I…don’t know, Corin. That’s an even bigger gamble. At least if one of us writes him, that’ll mitigate some of the damage. If he finds out neither of us wrote him at all, then…”

I took a breath. “Then I’ll handle the consequences when it comes to that.”

“…You’re sure about this?” I nodded. “Very sure.”

She hesitated, then finally, sighed and nodded her head. “Okay. I’ll stop bothering you about this, then.”

“Thanks. Let’s get ready to go.”

“Wait.” She raised a hand. “Corin…this goes beyond Father. You’re clearly hurting. You’ve been hiding it well enough that I didn’t really notice, but if you need to talk….”

“I don’t need to talk.” I said a little too fast to be convincing. “What I need is to get moving. To get that token. To help you, to help Tristan. The only way to lower my burden is to succeed.”

“Corin…that’s not a healthy way to live.”

I gave her a sad smile. “What other choice do I have?”

***Sera spent another couple minutes trying to convince me to open up. I wasn’t receptive.

Finally, when I proved I wasn’t capable of discussing things further, we broke off from our talk to get back to the others.

She never did tell me if she’d decided to send the letter.

After that talk, we headed to the train station. We didn’t get a private train compartment for such a short trip. Instead, I sat across from Sera, and Patrick and Mara found seats elsewhere.

For a time, we rode in relative quiet, making small talk on occasion.

I weighed our chances of making it through six floors with just the four of us. It sounded plausible, but plausible wasn’t worth risking our lives on. We’d either need to find extra people or make a better plan. Maybe someone else had one of the tokens that I needed available for sale, for example. It didn’t sound particularly likely — I’d never heard of thembefore, and as far as I knew, they were only used by Arbiters — but that didn’t make it strictly impossible.

We could have also just abandoned the whole climbing plan. I didn’t like abrupt changes of plans like that, but perhaps we could find a different way to track Warren Constantine. Or, of course, we could simply try to recruit someone else to Tristan’s cause. Tristan had asked for Constantine, but he couldn’t be the only valuable option available in the entire nation of Caelford.

When I mentioned that, I got a bit of a look from Sera. “Are you really sure you even want to be putting all your effort into this, Corin? I mean, I know you want to help Tristan, but…”

“You don’t trust him. I get it.”

“Oh, no. It’s not that. I mean, I absolutely don’t trust him, but that’s not really the issue. Even if he’s telling us the truth about all of his goals and all that — which he’s not, obviously — do we even agree with them?”

I’d been thinking about that a lot. “He presented it in a very idealistic fashion, but I think some of the core ideas are good.”

“Okay. But ideas alone aren’t what we’re dealing with here. We’re dealing with actual people. And as soon as people get involved…”

“Yes, yes. I know. This isn’t perfect. But what’s the alternative? Side with one of the other factions?”

Sera opened her hands in a gesture of surrender. “Or, you know, maybe a bunch of modestly trained teenagers should avoid getting too heavily involved in international politics.”

I snorted. “That’s the opposite of what I’d expect from you. You’ve always been the ambitious one.”

“Oh, true. Someday, all will tremble before my might, or whatever. But right now? We’re not equipped for this. You know that. I know that.”

“And yet here we are.”

Sera covered her eyes. “Here we are indeed. Just…let’s make sure we don’t do anything we regret, yeah?”

“If that was such an easy thing, our world would look very different.” “…Fair.” Sera conceded. “But let’s…maybe err on the side of notstarting any wars or plotting to kill any visages?”

“Yeah, that’s probably wise.” I exhaled a breath. “You think that’s Tristan’s endgame? He was pretty explicit about not working with thatwhole Godslayer faction.”

“Corin…they’re not going to forgive him for his involvement with Tenjin’s disappearance.”

“I know.” My reply was a whisper.

“So, even if his plan is uplifting humanity to a higher level of power, then eventually—”

“It’ll be ‘kill or be killed’ for Tristan. I know. That’s part of why this trip to the spire is important. It’s not just about following Warren. Sure, it’s possible he went through that gate, and we’ll find a trail if we go in there. But the gate has its own purpose, and…”

“You want to talk to Ferras about Tristan.” It was a statement, not a question.

“I want to make a deal. A few, actually. I want to save Tristan. And I want to help you with the scarring, too.”

“That’s two, not a few.” She gave me a look. “And I want fantastic magical powers?”

She smirked. “Better. But don’t worry about me too much. Get me in the door and I can make a deal with her of my own.”

“What, you going to ask her to sign a Summoner contract?”

“No, Corin. It’d be an Invoker contract.” She gave me a wink. “And, of course, I’d like to get my scarring dealt with.”

“Sounds good. We both have completely implausible plans. It’s almost like we’re related.”

Sera snorted. “Sounds unlikely to me.”

We were quiet for a moment before she spoke again. “Corin?” “Yeah, Sera?”

She looked away. “Don’t get your hopes up about a deal to save Tristan’s life. Even if Ferras agrees, I don’t think she can bind the other visages to it. And…I think Tristan knows what his odds are.”

“I’m sure he does. The way he talked…” I shook my head. “I’m glad I got to see him. And I’m going to do whatever I can to make sure it’s not the last time.”

***It took hours to arrive back at the spire. Once we got there, we were more than ready to get rolling. I was half-tempted to go straight into the place just out of sheer boredom, but I stuck to the plan.

We went to find the boards Mara and Patrick had talked about where prospective climbers posted notifications looking for groups. I was only just starting to look at them when I heard Patrick shout something in a gleeful tone.

“Professor! Over here!”

I turned to see who Patrick was shouting at. I found the familiar face of a black-skinned woman turning in our direction in surprise. She was leaning heavily on a long cane — even more heavily than usual, if I wasn’t mistaken — but her lips twisted up into a grin when she saw us.

“Well, children. This is an unexpected surprise.” Professor Meltlake began to walk in our direction with obvious difficulty. Patrick rushed toward his mentor, immediately offering her an arm to help her. “Oh, don’t be like that, Patrick. I’m not some old woman that needs help to cross a street. Just recovering, is all.”

“If you’re sure.” He sounded worried, and I didn’t blame him. When we’d last seen Meltlake……Well, that wasn’t a pleasant memory.

I walked over to her as well. “I thought you were in the hospital, Professor.”

“I was, and for entirely too long. Got out of there the moment they were willing to release me. I’ve only just arrived in Caelford.”

“How’s your recovery going?” Sera asked.

“Not as well as I’d like, but my body isn’t…” She sighed. “Let’s not talk about that. It’s a pleasure to see you all, but…what are you all doing here?”

“We’re going to climb the spire!” Patrick grinned.

“Are you, now?” Meltlake gave him a dubious look. She scanned our group. “I see four of you. While Miss Callahan is quite the capable warrior, and you’ve learned a great deal over the last year, Patrick…four is not a climbing group.”

Mara blushed brightly at the compliment. “We were gonna find some other students here if we could, but we’ve only just started taking a look.”

“Well, don’t let me bother you, then.” Meltlake smiled. “I’ll leave you to it.”

“Wait,” Sera asked before Meltlake turned away. “Yes, Miss Cadence?”

“Is Derek here with you?” She sounded maybe a little more invested in the answer than I expected. It was a good question. I’d almost forgotten that Derek was Meltlake’s nephew, and that he’d been visiting her at the hospital.

Meltlake looked strangely disappointed by the question. “Oh, Derek? Right, right. You were living with him for a while, weren’t you all?” She nodded to herself. “He’s not here. Had some business in the Unclaimed Lands, I think.”

I blinked at that. “Is he heading to the Seventh Spire again?”

She gave me a quizzical look. “He told you about that? Hm. How interesting. No, I don’t think so — not that he told me, at any rate. Boy doesn’t share as much as he used to. But I can’t blame him too much. He’s a grown man, he can make his own choices, as much as I might disapprove of some of them.”

From her tone, it was quite clear that she did, in fact, disapprove of some of his choices — and rather strongly.

“Was that all?” Meltlake asked, sounding a little impatient.

“Ah, what are you doing here, Professor?” I asked. “You wouldn’t happen to be climbing…?”

She gave an evaluating look. “I wasn’t planning to, actually.”

“Just sightseeing, then?” Sera asked. “No. Wait. You weren’t here for aJudgment, were you?”

Meltlake turned to Sera with a sad expression. “I was…considering it.”

Patrick’s jaw practically dropped. “But you’re famous for only having one attunement! You’re a legend!”

“And you saw how well that worked out. All of you did.” Meltlake shuddered.

“Mizuchi.” Sera spat the word. It wasn’t a question.

Meltlake’s hand tightened around the top of her cane. “If I was still in my prime…no, even then, I couldn’t have beaten her. Not with one attunement.”

“That’s no failing of yours. I don’t think anyone could have, Professor.” Patrick sounded heartbroken as he said it, his eyes wide and full of the kind of instant sympathy that I’d never been able to properly demonstrate.

“That’s exactly my point, Patrick.” She exhaled a breath. “I reached as high as a single attunement could take me long ago.”

I frowned at that. A question occurred to me. One that was, perhaps, a rude one to ask, but I was never good at judging that — or holding back even when I knew. “What about Sapphire?”

Meltlake turned to me without anger, but only an expression showing disappointment. “Don’t ask me about Sapphire.”

“I, uh…” I didn’t know quite how to respond to that, so I froze for a moment.

Earning Sapphire had become one of my long-term goals. Given how powerful Meltlake was, she was one of the most likely people to know about paths to get there. Things that had been attempted in the past, maybe even people who had succeeded. I hadn’t expected her to look so upset when I’d mentioned it.

What threw her off somehow? Does it have something to do with her injury?After a beat, I managed to focus enough to change the subject. “Okay.

What about ascended attunements. Do you already have one?”

“No.” Meltlake shook her head. “I’m aware of the rumors, but it’s not an ascended attunement. Just a fire-specialized one. Even I don’t know how to ascend an attunement. I’ve tried several things, but…”

“I see.” I gave Sera a questioning look.

She had an ascended attunement. She must have understood what I was asking. She shook her head and mouthed “not now”.

I turned back to Meltlake. “Maybe we could help you look for new ideas?”

“No, I’m afraid not, Corin. I’d rather not discuss my attunement further.”

I nodded. “I’m sorry, Professor. I didn’t mean to bring up a subject that was difficult for you.”

She let out a deep sigh. “It’s no bother. You’re my students…and, you have a right to know. Especially Patrick.”

“You…don’t think you’re coming back, do you?” He asked.

“I can’t be certain.” She gave him a hard look. “The odds of coming out of a second Judgment go up with each attunement level, but not by much. And with my injuries…”

“Can’t you just wait until you recover more?” Patrick asked, pleading.

“It won’t matter. Too many permanent ones.” Meltlake shook her head. “It’s this or…well, the alternatives are worse.”

“Why not buy an artificial attunement? Can’t you afford one?” Again, an impertinent question, but I had to ask.

She gave me a look. “Perhaps I could. But my pride won’t allow it. If I can’t earn another attunement on my own, what chance do I have if…”

“You’re planning to fight her again.” Mara said in a reverent tone.

“I’m planning to beat her.” Meltlake replied. And then, more quietly, she added. “And next time…one of us won’t walk away.”

“That’s…” I wanted to say “suicide by demigod”, but I restrained myself, changing my message, “…let us help you.”

“I couldn’t possibly involve you children in something like this. Not again. You’ve suffered more than enough because of my weakness. I… should have been able to protect you.”

“You did, Professor,” Patrick whispered, gently. “Better than anyone else could have.”

“It wasn’t enough.” Meltlake shook her head. “And I won’t let there be a next time.”

“Uh, about that.” I winced. “There’s something you should know.

Maybe…somewhere more private?”

Meltlake raised an eyebrow at me. “What could you possibly mean by that, Master Cadence?”

With some convincing, we found a more private area to chat. I felt awful every time Meltlake was forced to take a step — she was clearly still in a great deal of pain — but I couldn’t justify letting someone overhear us.

Then, omitting any mention of Tristan, I explained that Sera and I had already fought Mizuchi again in the Serpent Spire.

“And you’re alive? How?” Meltlake demanded.

“We had help, of course. And Mizuchi was vastly weaker. That banishment spell…she couldn’t have been at a tenth of her usual strength. Not even a hundredth.”

“Vellum.” Meltlake frowned. “I’ll need to speak to her about how she managed that at some point. You mentioned help?”

“We had Keras Selyrian escort us into the spire.” Sera offered. It was technically true, but the obvious twisting of the tale drew some looks fromMara and Patrick. They held their tongues in spite of their obvious disapproval.

If Meltlake noticed their faces, she didn’t mention it. Instead, she laughed. “Selyrian? You know him?”

“Uh, yeah.” Patrick began, then added with a hint of embarrassment, “Actually, he just took me and Mara up to the twelfth-floor last week.”

“Did he, now?” Meltlake gave Patrick an appraising look. “I’m proud of you both, then. That’s an incredible accomplishment for your age.”

Now it was Patrick’s turn to blush. “I…didn’t really do much.”

“He’s lying.” Mara grinned. “Patrick was incredible in there. You should have seen how he handled the gorgon.”

“I think I would have liked that.” Meltlake sounded wistful.

“Well,” I glanced to the others, then back to her, “Maybe you can see something just as good.”

Meltlake turned to me. “Oh? Whatever do you mean, Master Cadence?” “Well, we were looking for more people to climb the spire with. And, while you might only be Emerald-level, I think that barely meets ourrequirements.”

She gave me a genuine laugh. “You know what? If it’s okay with the rest of you children,” she got a series of nods and a gasp of delight from Patrick, “I’d be delighted to accompany you into the Tiger Spire.”

***We discussed our plans a bit more after that. Meltlake was packed for a Judgment, not a climb, so we took a brief detour for her to pick up some other supplies she wanted. By evening, we were ready to climb.

We briefly discussed getting a sixth climber, but we didn’t find anyone on the postings that appealed to us. And honestly? We didn’t need one.

We were only planning to go up six floors. Even injured, Meltlake alone could probably handle the first twenty or more without any difficulty, unless they were an absolute mismatch for her skills.

And beyond that? We had emergency plans. I’d taken my circlet back from Cecily. Meltlake had her own return bell. Everyone else had return bell functions on our shield sigils. And we even had the ability to contact Keras if it really came down to it.

Honestly, it was probably the safest I’d ever felt when entering a spire. Even when we’d gone in with Keras, I’d known something was likely to gowrong (and, of course, it did).

This was a supposedly normal climb that we were vastly over-prepared for. Exactly the way I liked it.

With everything ready, we waited in line, talked, and signed in with the Soaring Wings at the entrance.

And with all that done?We walked into the wide-open jaws of the Tiger Spire.

