CHAPTER III – SPLITTING THE PARTY

Upon arriving in Westbridge, we disembarked the train. We immediately had to go through a customs checkpoint. While the whole process made me incredibly nervous, we got through without much difficulty.

As we waited in line, Cecily made a suggestion. “Um, would you all like me to check your safe mana limits?”

I hesitated. Others had fewer reservations.

“Sure! I haven’t checked mine in a while.” Patrick grinned at her, eagerly sticking out his hand.

“121. Very impressive, Patrick.”

Patrick beamed, flexing his arm. “Ooh. I can almost feel how impressive I am.”

Cecily giggled. “Okay, who’s next? Master Selyrian, perhaps?”

Keras shook his head. “I’ll pass. It probably won’t work on me, anyway.”

Cecily looked a little confused by that and maybe a bit disappointed. “Uh, okay. If you’re sure?” It was easy to forget that Cecily didn’t know as much about Keras as the rest of us did — she hadn’t been present for his story-telling or living at the house with us. “Anyone else?”

Mara walked over. I looked away while she exposed the mark on her chest. “Hit me.”

“That’s...wow. Okay. 268, Mara. That’s incredible!”

That really was incredible. She was already even closer to Sunstone than I’d expected. She still had almost a hundred to go, but at this rate, she’d hit Sunstone well before we graduated from school.

With a couple more tricks, maybe we can even get her there before we get back.

It seemed unlikely, but it was a good goal. “Sera?”

Sera frowned, then turned around and showed her own attunement.

“80! You’re almost caught up to where you were before, uh, the incident. Good work.”

“That’s...much better than I expected.” Sera breathed a sigh of relief. “Thanks, Cecily. I think I needed that. Maybe I can catch up after all.”

“You’re actually already ahead of me,” Cecily explained. “I just hit 75, with Corin’s help. That Arbiter attunement is really useful. Wish I’d known about it a little sooner.”

I winced. “Sorry. I should have told you.”

Cecily blinked at me. “Oh, no. I’m sorry, didn’t mean to make it sound like you had an obligation. I’m just a little envious, since you’ve all had access to those power increases for a lot longer. You’re vastly ahead of average expected mana values for our age. I’m a little bit ahead, too, but not by anywhere near as wide of a margin.”

“You’re doing pretty good, all things considered.”

She nodded slowly at that. “I suppose so. But I’ll continue to ask for your help, if it isn’t too much trouble.”

“Sure, it’s my pleasure.”

“Th...thanks. Uh, did you want me to measure your mana?” I took a deep breath. “Yeah, go for it.”

I really did want to know. I just also didn’t want to get back into the habit of checking it every five minutes.

“Let’s see...” She pressed the mana watch against my forehead. “128. That’s excellent growth from the last number you told me. And this one...” She pressed the watch against my Arbiter attunement. “Even better. 160. Very impressive.”

I gave her a nod. “Thanks, Cecily.” I frowned. “That actually seems a little lower than I expected, though.”

She blinked. “What were you expecting?”

“I was at 122 and 155 before we got on the train. If I kept gaining mana at the same rate as before, I should have been somewhere like 134 and 167...” I shook my head. “I couldn’t train as fast as back in Valia, but it shouldn’t have been that much of a decrease.”

Cecily tucked the mana watch away. “I don’t think you were accounting for the Sunstone Wall, Corin.”

The Sunstone Wall is a concept in attunement development theory. It states that, from the point of Sunstone onward, an attuned must train in areas of greater and greater ambient mana saturation in order to continue to improve their safe mana levels at a noticeable rate.

For this reason, most people never increased their attunement beyond Sunstone level, even if they’d reached it at a relatively young age.

I shook my head at Cecily. “That’d make sense if we were Sunstone- level or higher, but I’m not. Even if you account for both of my mana pools, I wouldn’t total to Sunstone-level.”

“No, no. You’re taking the name too literally.” She paused, seeming to have difficulty articulating her thoughts. “Okay. How long did it take you to get your mana back in Valia?”

“If I drained it completely? Around an hour or so. Less if I used the bracers.”

She nodded. “Right. And on the train?”

I was starting to see where she was going. “Several hours, due to the lower mana density on the train. My silver phoenix sigil helped, but it was recharging more slowly, too, for the same reason.”

For most people, maybe that wouldn’t have been too noticeable, but I’d gotten used to working myself to near-exhaustion by draining my mana pool multiple times per day.

“Right. The train has virtually no ambient mana, and we’re all sharing it. It’s not like school, where we’re sitting next to the Serpent Spire, and everything is saturated with mana all the time.”

I frowned. “Sure, that impacted my training, but my mana shouldn’t have gone up that slowly. I was still training, maybe, half as frequently as usual. Shouldn’t I have improved half as much?”

Cecily shook her head. “If you’re not training beyond a certain threshold, your mana pool isn’t going to grow at all. And with the lower ambient mana in the air, your body is essentially mana starved. It’s honestly surprising our mana grew at all on the train. I suspect your Arbiter attunement was the primary source of our growth, and the training served very little function.”

That was...discouraging to hear, if she was right. But it did make some sense.

For the first time, I was starting to comprehend the difficulties I might run into trying to get to higher attunement levels. My progress to this point had been relatively smooth.

If I wanted to continue to increase my attunement power rapidly, I’d have to start thinking in terms of ways to compensate for low manaareas...or simply train in areas of high mana saturation.

Derek’s choice to live right next to the Serpent Spire suddenly made a great deal more sense. It wasn’t just about being able to visit the spire and climb very easily, although that was clearly a factor. Sitting right next to the spire also offered enough mana density for him to train there.

And, of course, training inside the spire would be even faster.

If I wanted to get as powerful as people like Derek — which I obviously did — I’d have to either use a similar strategy, or figure out a way to cheat the system and continue saturating my body with mana even in low-mana areas.

Mana regeneration items were the obvious solution, but my current ones like the bracers and phoenix sigils also drew mana from the environment, meaning they were less effective in mana-starved regions. If I wanted to go that route, I’d have to study other types of recharge runes, but those had other problems.

I thanked Cecily for her insight, then spent much of the time in line lost in thought.

My frustration with my lack of growth made me even more jittery than usual. I was already thinking about checking my numbers again before we got to the end of the line. I resisted the urge. Embarrassment helped me when mere personal restraint might have failed.

I honestly don’t know how Keras talked his way in, given that he was an international criminal. Maybe his identification listed another name? I didn’t ask.

Either way, it was a relief — if a bit jarring — to be back to standing on ground that wasn’t moving.

Two weeks on a train had been plenty of time to discuss our vacation plans. We had, in fact, talked about them. We had not, however, actually come to any concrete decisions.

I had my own priorities, of course. Just after boarding the train, I’d gotten another message in Trials of Judgment.

Corin,Thank you for agreeing to help with my cause. I can’t tell you how much it means to have you on my side in all this. With your help, I believe we have a real chance of success.

Unfortunately, I can provide you with little guidance. I won’t be able to reach you much longer, since you’re going to be out of the book’s range shortly. I can tell you what I need, but the details will largely be up to you.

In order to accomplish our goals, we will need to understand the intricacies of how attunements work. I believe our best bet on that is Warren Constantine, a man who was deeply involved with the artificial attunement project in its earliest stages.

Over a decade ago, Warren vanished. I do not know the cause. My contacts believe that he had a falling out with Anabelle Farren, the owner of Farren Labs.

In the last year, my agents have reported seeing someone who meets his description (a Valian man in his 40s with white streaks in his hair and a moon-shaped scar under his left eye) back in Caelford, but he has thus far evaded all attempts to contact him. I would like you to find Warren and attempt to recruit him, or at least discover what happened to cause him to leave Farren Labs. To that end, I would recommend visiting Farren Labs and attempting to find their records of his employment and hints about his current location.

If you do find Warren, appealing to him as a fellow Arbiter might be effective. Very few others share your attunement and he may be more receptive to you than my other agents.

Do not give any indication to Anabelle Farren that you’ve met me. She is intensely dangerous and cannot be trusted.

If you cannot gain Warren’s allegiance, I will trust you to find a suitable alternative.

Please do not disappoint me.

-Mysterious Brother EntityThat was a lot to take in. I already had planned to visit Farren for plenty of reasons, but this solidified the necessity of making that a first step. I’d shared most of that information with my group, but that didn’t mean everyone needed to come with me.

The headquarters for Farren Labs was still deeper into Caelford, in the capitol city of Medrian. If we wanted to get there, we’d have to spend a few more hours on a train.

I knew that was where I was going, but the others were a little bit less excited to jump straight onto another train. We didn’t have an exact deadline on Tristan’s request, after all, and not everyone was obligated to do exactly what Tristan wanted.

“Why don’t we go to the Dawning Festival? I’ve heard the food is amazing, and maybe we could even enter some contests!” Patrick suggested.

“Ooh. Festival food is always great.” Mara grinned.

I was less enthused by that idea. There were people at festivals. Too many people.

Sera offered a different option. “We’re right at the border of the Unclaimed Lands. We could take a quick jaunt into them, maybe find some monsters to contract...”

Keras shook his head. “I don’t think you’re quite ready for that. Not by yourselves, anyway.”

“Won’t you be with us?” Sera raised an eyebrow at him.

“I’m heading to the Tiger Spire immediately. I’ll catch up to you for the train ride back, if not before.”

“You think you’ll be there the whole vacation?” I asked.

Keras nodded. “Probably. You’re welcome to accompany me there if you want, but you probably shouldn’t go in with me. I intend to push my way up very rapidly.”

“...And we’d just get in your way?” Mara gave him a dejected look. “It’s not that. But I can’t guarantee your safety, especially at the upperfloors.”

Sera sighed at him. “Why bother, if the visages might keep interfering with you? If what Tristan told Corin is right, they’re never going to let you get to the top.”

“I can’t stop trying.” Keras clenched his fists. “It’s too important. If they put obstacles in my way, I’ll cut through them.”

“That won’t help much if they just keep throwing in random teleporters that send you back to the bottom.” I pointed out.

“True. But I don’t think that’s Ferras’ style. From what I’ve heard, the illusion of fairness and consistency is more important to her. I’d also be able to discern that more easily with this particular spire than the others.”

I nodded at that. From what I’d read about the Tiger Spire, it was much more regimented than the Serpent Spire was. Every floor had a specific theme. The contents of the early floors rotated on a weekly basis, always at a set day and time. The higher floors rotated more infrequently — monthly, and then supposedly yearly.

It was much more predictable in general. Ferras was an engineer, and she valued preparation and methodical analysis. That was reflected in the style of her spire.

Truthfully, that meant her spire was a better match for me than the Serpent Spire ever had been.

I was tempted to go with Keras, but honestly, I agreed with his assessment. We’d barely survived each of our previous spire visits, and if he was going to be brute forcing his way toward higher floors, we’d eventually run into traps and monsters that might kill us outright with collateral damage alone.

“Might be good to do some climbin’ on our own,” Mara suggested. “Be a nice change of pace to just smash through things without havin’ to worry ‘bout Mizuchi and such. Pick up some items, get some practice. Bet we could handle it.”

“We don’t have a full team without Keras,” Patrick pointed out. “Hey, Keras. Do you think someone like Reika—”

“Don’t.” Keras gave Patrick a stern look. “She’s not available.” “Aah—okay.” Patrick withered at the glance. “Maybe we could find aveteran or two to help us?”

“They’re not likely to want to work with Quartzes and Carnelians. Mara might be able to join an existing team, given that she’s mid-way to Sunstone, but the rest of us?” Sera shook her head. “We’re not really ready to be climbers. Not without help. And moreover, we have a very limited time period we’re available. Even if someone wanted to work with us, having to leave on our schedule wouldn’t be very appealing. We could hire mercenary climbers to escort us up a ways, and I’d consider that…but it’d be expensive.”

“We could take second Judgments,” Cecily suggested, so quietly I barely noticed her.

“That’s...not a bad idea.” Sera made a considering expression. “It’s usually not advised at our age, but the Tiger Spire isn’t quite as brutal assome. And unlike first Judgments, you can bring magical items into second Judgments. That includes return bells. We probably wouldn’t succeed, but I think we’d have good odds of making it out alive.”

I thought about Tristan, and how “good of a chance” he was supposed to have of making it through his original Judgment. True, he had actually survived, but he’d been taken away from our family regardless.

What would I do if Sera disappeared? Or Patrick, or even Mara or Cecily?I didn’t like the idea of losing anyone else, but it wasn’t really my choice what they did. The only person I could choose for was myself.

“We’re not ready.”

Surprisingly, it was Mara that made the statement.

Of all of us, I would have assumed she’d be the most excited about getting a second attunement. She was the strongest of us by a wide margin, and she was usually happy to throw herself fist-first into danger.

When she saw us all looking at her in surprise, she continued. “We’ve gotta pretty good idea on how Judgments work now. We know there are people watchin’ us, and we know they might try to kidnap us or worse. Splittin’ up right now is a bad call.”

“Sorry.” Cecily winced. “I guess it was a bad idea.”

“No, it was a good idea.” Sera gave Cecily an affectionate nudge. “I think we all want more attunements. Who wouldn’t?”

“Not sure I do, if I’m bein’ honest.” Mara somehow managed to shock us all a second time.

“Why?” I asked.

“Growth rates and side effects. Been doing some readin’ of my own. You know why Derek only has one attunement? ‘Cause if you end up with two near each other, they can have interference, like with magic items. If you get ones with opposing mana types near each other, it can cause some real bad side effects, too. That ain’t common, but it’s a big risk.”

I’d heard a little bit about that in my own reading, but getting two marks on the same location was pretty rare. Curtis, my old dorm chief, was the only case I could remember seeing. He had two marks on the same arm, which was pretty unusual. I probably should have asked him more about that, but I’d fallen out of contact with him after I’d moved in with Derek.

“We could try to get artificial attunements,” Patrick suggested. “I think we could probably pick where they go.”

“I’d probably be up for that, but I’d wanna know more ‘bout how they work. Don’t really trust ‘em.” Mara frowned. “I’d worry that they wouldn’t work quite right, or maybe they have tracking magic in ‘em or something.”

I’d considered the possibility of tracking magic, but I hadn’t worried about it too much. Mara was absolutely right, though. Whoever made and applied an attunement could easily sabotage it in some way, with tracking magic or something even more nefarious.

That made figuring out exactly how artificial attunements worked an even higher priority. I needed to be able to look at all their component parts and figure out which functions, if any, could be used against us.

That was probably a long-term goal, but I wanted to get started as soon as possible.

Patrick jumped in. “I like Mara’s first idea. What if we just go in with the five of us and take it slow? Maybe pick up a few items, leave as soon as it gets dangerous.”

“That still has the ‘people watching us might interfere’ problem,” Sera pointed out. “Keras, would you be willing to escort us through just a few floors? I think it offers benefits to all of us. Six minds could help solve any puzzle floors faster, and you’d be able to keep us safer in cases of physical danger.”

Keras smirked at Sera. “I wasn’t planning to ‘solve’ the puzzle floors, exactly.”

She rolled her eyes. “You already got in trouble with Katashi for blasting through walls. Do you want to have the same problem with this spire? You’ve drawn enough attention to yourself as-is.”

“I’m not sure doing more damage would make the visages any more likely to interfere with me than they already are, but you have a point.” He sighed. “Okay. I can drag some of you with me, if that’s what you want to do.”

Mara seemed excited, and Sera and Patrick were both warming up to the idea. Cecily was being quiet again.

I hesitated, then shook my head. “The rest of you are welcome to go, but I’m heading to Farren Labs. I need to stay focused, and every time I’vegone into a spire, it’s ended up being messy. I can’t add more complications right now.”

“Boring.” Sera sighed. “But you’re probably right. If you really want to sit on a train for another day, I guess I’ll go with you.”

I gave Sera a grateful nod. “Thanks. What about the rest of you? You don’t have to follow me.”

“Actually, I kind of do. Retainer, remember?” Patrick grinned.

I put up my hands in a warding gesture. “Sure, sure. But you don’t have to follow me literally all the time. If Keras is willing to escort some of us through a spire, that might be valuable experience. And I don’t foresee needing all of us for a visit to a lab.”

“I guess...” Patrick looked troubled, but didn’t give an immediate answer.

“I’ma go with Keras.” Mara jerked a thumb in his direction. “Think you’re smart to be avoidin’ more trouble right now, given how much you’re already in, but I don’t have to worry ‘bout that. And if Keras ends up back in a jail, ‘least he’ll have someone to bust ‘im out.”

Keras laughed. “I’ll be busting myself out a little faster this time, but the help would be appreciated nonetheless.”

“I...think I’ll go with Corin and Sera to the lab. I’d like to learn more about artificial attunements, too.” Cecily looked at me with a pleading expression, as if she needed my permission or something.

“Sounds good, having another Enchanter will make this a lot easier.

Maybe we can split up any note-taking responsibilities.” She gave me a grateful nod. “...I’d like that.”

“Just you left, then, Patrick.” Sera turned to him. “What’ll it be? Gonna go with us to ask a bunch of technical questions about attunement design, or blast some monsters?”

Patrick snorted. “When you put it like that, I feel like you’re really not very fond of the lab idea yourself.”

“I’d much rather be climbing. But, as much fun as that’d be, I have some questions of my own. Farren Labs is one of few places that might have some idea about ascended attunements, as well as helping to repair my mana scarring further. Especially if Ferras herself might be around.”

Sera had a point. Katashi had indicated that Ferras might be able to heal Sera’s  mana  scarring.  While  Sheridan  had  already  helped  heal  Serasomewhat, Ferras’ help was still something that might be worth pursuing. Sera was almost back up to her previous mana limit, but her voice still sounded rough, and we didn’t know if any remaining scarring would cause her long-term health problems.

“Point. Okay.” Patrick hesitated, taking a deep breath. “I...think I’m going with Mara and Keras. I mean, if that’s okay?” He gave me a pained look, and I briefly wondered if he wanted me to tell him he had to come with me. Maybe that would have been kinder, in some respects. I think he wanted to feel needed.

But I didn’t want his whole life to revolve around me, and I knew he’d probably be miserable just sticking with me the whole trip.

I gave him a nod and the best smile I could manage. “Of course. Just stay safe in there.”

His own smile was half-hearted at best. “You too, Corin. Don’t you dare get hurt while I’m gone.”

I rolled my eyes. “I’m not the one going to a spire. I’m going to a science lab. What could possibly be dangerous about that?”

***After the talk, we discussed when and where we’d be meeting up. Sera, being the organized one, already had a list of hotels available for the area. She gave Patrick, Mara, and Keras the name of the hotel where we’d be staying. Patrick and Mara agreed to come meet us in a week if they could leave the spire safely. Keras gave no such guarantee, but he told us he’d plan to find us sometime before the trip back to Valia if possible.

It was late when we finally arrived at the hotel that Sera had selected. Fortunately, Sera was also better at money management than I was, and she was able to pay for the rooms.

The next day, we looked into Farren Labs. They had several different buildings, but it wasn’t hard to find the headquarters, where Anabelle Farren actually worked.

Much like many of the buildings in Caelford, the headquarters for Farren Labs wasn’t tall — it was wide. I suspected the architectural difference had something to do with the apparent frequency of earthquakes in the area, but it’s also possible that I was totally mistaken because I never really paid any attention to architectural history.

And I shouldn’t really call it a building — the headquarters for Farren Labs was more of a campus of structures, maybe ten or so in total. It took us a while just to find a central map, then find the “research headquarters” where we suspected Annabelle Farren herself could be found.

The research lab wasn’t the largest of the structures, at least on the surface. It was only later that I would learn that the majority of it was located deep underground, in several subterranean levels.

In retrospect, they might have been the cause of some of the earthquakes.

The building was a pristine white, with walls of smooth stone that looked like they might have been cut from a single piece of marble. If I had to guess, the building itself had either been crafted directly with earth magic or modified with it to provide the look.

Atop the building, I could see a series of metallic structures that were pointed skyward. Some simply looked like thin rods, but there was something else that had more of a bowl-shape. I didn’t know what I was looking at. They didn’t look like simple lightning rods or astronomical observation equipment to me, but I wasn’t really an expert.

I didn’t bother putting that on my list of things to study later. That was getting a little overly full.

Sera, Cecily, and I walked in the main entrance with high hopes and lofty goals. Unfortunately, we may have made a slight miscalculation.

After walking through the double doors to the lab, we met not with Anabelle Farren herself, but rather a receptionist at a front desk. “Do you have an appointment?”

Sera stepped up front. “We do not.”

He gave a bright, ever-suffering smile. “I’m sorry, but our research team is very busy, and generally do not meet with anyone without an appointment. Who were you hoping to see?”

I took a breath, suddenly realizing the scope of what we were asking. “Anabelle...Farren?”

The receptionist’s expression never changed. “I’m afraid that won’t be possible.”

Sera and I exchanged glances, then I looked back to the receptionist. “Could we make an appointment, then?” I asked.

“I’m afraid that won’t be possible at this time, either, as Miss Farren is completely booked for the next several months. She has asked not to have any further disturbances during that time frame. If you’d like to come back in about six months, I would be able to request an appointment at that time, but there are no guarantees that she would agree to a meeting. I would advise heading to the main office to speak to, well, literally anyone else.”

Sera took over, speaking with more confidence than I could have managed. “We’ll need to speak to Miss Farren directly. She’ll want to see us, I guarantee it.”

“I sincerely doubt that.” The receptionist looked more impatient and annoyed than just skeptical. “I see that he’s an Enchanter, but just a Carnelian...is this about an internship? Such a thing is beneath Miss Farren’s concerns, but if you’d like to intern here for the winter, I can direct you to the right office to apply for one.”

Sera’s eye twitched. “No, this is not about an internship. And it’s not just about him, either.” She turned around, pulling up the back of her shirt. “Do you recognize this attunement?”

The receptionist narrowed his eyes. “No...I...don’t, actually. Which is rare, I assure you. Wait, you’re not one of the test cases, are you? If you are, then—”

Sera turned back to face him. “I’m not a test case. I have an Ascended Attunement. And this guy,” she jerked a thumb at me, “is an Arbiter. I understand you have a need for those.”

The receptionist’s eyes widened. “An...Ascended Attunement? And an Arbiter? I, uh, appear to have misread the situation. May I see the Arbiter mark?”

I pulled off my glove and showed him.

“I...uh...forgive me. This is,” he coughed, “...a rare honor. I can’t promise an immediate meeting, but, um, right this way. We have a waiting room for honored guests, and I’ll make sure you have some refreshments while I speak to Miss Farren about a meeting.”

The receptionist led us to a large room with a handful of comfortable chairs around a table. Sera angled straight for the table in the back with food, which was understandable, given that we’d been eating train food for days.

I, however, was more distracted by the tall bookshelves lining the walls. Cecily rushed to one of them instantly, grabbing a heavy tone. “Corin, look! They have the latest edition of Practical Enchantments for the Creative Climber!”

I walked over. “Isn’t that part of next year’s curriculum?”

“Well, yes, but I might have read slightly ahead.” She reached up and adjusted her glasses. “I just love finding new sources for enchantment ideas, and our first-year books were, well, sadly insufficient in that regard.”

“Sure, but aren’t most of the ones in that book Carnelian-level?”

She let out a sigh. “Yes, of course. I can’t actually use most of them yet.

But I have so many ideas...”

I laughed. “That’s good. I bet you’d get a lot more out of seeing what they do here, if they’ll give us a tour.”

“Oh...I certainly hope so. I don’t have anything special like you and Sera do. I have a feeling they’ll just send me away.”

“Maybe, but we’ll see what we can do. I’m sure there’s a place at a facility like this for talented Enchanters, too.”

Cecily blushed. “I...thank you, Corin. I’ll hope so.”

We sat down with books after that, but I didn’t get much reading done.

We weren’t waiting long before someone came to fetch us.

He was a tall man in an immaculate suit with the black skin of a Caelford native. His head was shaved bald and he had a spiked goatee on his chin. More importantly, he had one of the strangest auras I’d ever seen. As I watched, it flickered rapidly between red, orange, and yellow, with different sections of the aura changing at different rates. The rapidly shifting patterns were difficult to even look at.

What’s going on there? Multiple attunements interfering with each other, maybe?That was strange enough, but as he walked closer, I felt something in the air. There was a field of pressure around him, like the world itself was suddenly pulling down on me harder. It wasn’t enough to actually force me to the ground, just enough to make my body feel heavier and more sluggish. I’d felt something like before, with far greater intensity — from Katashi himself, the Visage of Valor. Getting that feeling again just from being nearsomeone was more than a little terrifying.

And that wasn’t the end of the strangeness.

When he turned to look at me, I thought I saw a symbol of some kind briefly flash in his eyes. I’d never seen anything like it.

He briefly turned toward Sera and Cecily, then turned back to me. “Miss Farren will see you now.”

Sera set down her food and stepped up next to me. “Thank you, please lead the way.”

He gave her a strangely intense look, like his eyes were searching for something, then turned back toward the doorway. “This way.”

Cecily frowned, making a pointing gesture toward herself. I nodded to her. “Come on.”

Together, the three of us followed the heavy aura out of the room. He led us down a hallway with several more doors. After that, we passed two areas with glass — or maybe crystal — walls. Glancing through them as we passed, I barely stopped myself from freezing in awe.

The rooms beyond the glass walls were filled with golems. Dozens, maybe hundreds of them, standing in rows. Workers milled about them, working on both assembly and enchanting different parts. I saw work tables where people were drawing runes that I didn’t recognize on individual limbs, as well as areas where people seemed to be speaking to inactive golems. I wasn’t sure what the reason for that could have been, but I was intrigued.

I’d known Farren Labs worked on more than just artificial attunements, but golem creation wasn’t really something I’d looked into in any detail. That was something I’d have to learn about another time, though. The man leading the way didn’t slow down to give us time to gawk or ask any questions.

We passed more sections of the building, including a few more with windows where we could see into labs. Most of these were less surprising, including labs where I saw people working on more traditional enchanting and alchemy.

I briefly paused as I saw a group of people standing around a suit of armor as someone pressed a hand against a rune — and the armor glowed for an instant before slowly floating and hovering above the ground.

I heard a series of cheers as the armor lifted off, followed by a chorus of applause.

And, for just a moment, my heart warmed at the sight.

I’d spent my whole childhood thinking of Enchanters as being less than other attuned. I’d been raised to think that, because they didn’t have immediate combat ability, they were useless as duelists — and thus, useless to the glorious House Cadence.

When I’d stood before my father and shown him my attunement, I’d been filled with shame.

But seeing that suit of armor lifting from the ground, and seeing the people cheering for the success, I felt something entirely new. A sense of pride for the accomplishment of those Enchanters, and more than that, a sense of longing to be a part of it.

Perhaps here, for the first time, I could find some measure of acceptance. A chance to be a part of a place where my attunement would be respected, not reviled.

I had to briefly remind myself that Tristan had asked me to infiltrate this place, not try to find myself a career.

“Come on.” Sera walked back to me, reaching to grab me, then stopping herself short. “There’ll be plenty of time to gawk later.”

I nodded, moving on, but I didn’t take my eyes off that group of celebrating Enchanters until the glass was out of view.

***The man with the strange aura stopped in front of a standard door toward the very rear of the building, then knocked on the door. “Miss Farren, I have your guests.”

“Send them in, Nakht,” came a woman’s voice from the other side of the door.

I felt a brief and familiar surge of nervousness, but I suppressed it to the best of my ability.

Nakht moved to the door, but paused before opening the handle. “I will not disarm you before you enter. I do not need to. Do not make any mistakes.”

Without giving us a chance to reply, he opened the door and stepped aside.

Sera smiled sweetly at him. “You have nothing to worry about.” With that, she stepped inside.

Nakht’s eyes narrowed at her, but he said nothing further.

Cecily and I followed Sera inside with substantially less confidence.

The door shut behind us.

Inside was what seemed like a perfectly ordinary office room. I didn’t sense a single hint of enchanted material from the walls, the floors, or the door.

Nor did I sense even the slightest bit of power from the young-looking black-skinned woman who sat at a desk across from us.

Anabelle Farren — or, at least the woman who I assumed to be Anabelle Farren — looked very much like any ordinary woman in her twenties who hadn’t slept in about a week.

Her shoulder-length hair was tangled and uneven. Her silver-framed glasses were smudged. Her gray tailored suit was a little darker than it should have been right at the cuffs, like she’d spilled something on the sleeves and hadn’t bothered to change.

It was the type of look that might have made her seem less than intimidating, or even sympathetic, if her absolute lack of an aura hadn’t set off every alarm bell in my head. I could see absolutely no chance that the owner of a laboratory that created artificial attunements didn’t have any herself. That meant she was hiding her power completely, to an extent that I couldn’t even guess at what she was capable of.

It was, in some respects, even more intimidating than if she had shined bright green or blue. In those cases, at least I would have had some idea of what I was dealing with. With no aura at all, I was left with only nervous uncertainty.

Anabelle set down her pen and pushed aside a series of papers that had been on the desk in front of her, adding them to a haphazard stack on her left side. As she gestured for us to approach, I noted that her fingers were ungloved and splotched with ink. The dark marks were a sharp contrast against the glistening silver nib of her strangely elaborate pen, which I noted to have a crescent-shaped refilling mechanics in the tip. No attunement marks were visible on her hands. “I’m so sorry about the mess! I knew you were coming, but, ah, I must have lost track of time. Or you’re early. What day is it?”

“Tensday?” Sera tried, raising an eyebrow.

Farren visibly recoiled in her chair. “It...is? It’s...uh, hm. That’s bad. Okay. Right. Sit down?” She waved vaguely at the opposite side of the table where she was sitting. There were only two chairs.

The three of us walked closer, exchanging uncertain looks.

“I’ll stand,” Sera offered. “Thank you for seeing us on such short notice, Miss Farren. Although, you mentioned that you were expecting us already?”

Sera glanced back at me, giving me a questioning look. I shook my head at her. I hadn’t sent a message ahead.

Cecily and I took seats, as Farren had asked. I was more than happy to let Sera continue to guide the conversation for the moment. Not only was she generally better with people than I was, she genuinely enjoyed talking to them. For me, meeting new people was generally an unfortunate necessity, not an interest.

Annabelle Farren might have actually been an exception for me, if I hadn’t been absolutely confident that she — or Nakht — was about fifty percent likely to obliterate me if I said the wrong thing. That sort of thing made it hard for me to be enthusiastic, even if I truly did want to know all about her research.

“Right, right. Of course. Yes, I was informed. You’re late, then. Or I’m late. Never mind.” Farren blinked, then wiped at her face, smearing a trail of ink. “Ah. I’m sorry. Tea, anyone? Yes? Everyone? Everyone likes tea, don’t they?”

“I’d...like some tea.” Cecily’s reply was tentative, her tone tinged with obvious discomfort.

“Yes, of course. Tea. Right away, Miss Lambert.” Farren snapped her fingers. Or, tried to, anyway. They were slick with ink, and didn’t make much of a sound. She stared at them for a moment, looking vaguely flustered, then clapped her hands instead.

Nothing seemed to happen, at least at first. That was odd, but it wasn’t the most concerning thing.

I was more worried about something she’d said. I was reasonably confident that we hadn’t given Cecily’s name anywhere in the building. Someone had told Farren we were coming in advance, then. And someone who knew Cecily was with us. That was a pretty short list, as far as I knew.

Before I could think about that overmuch, someone opened the door behind us. Nakht was still standing to the side of the door, but another man— in what appeared to be a traditional butler’s outfit — was in the doorway itself. He had a tray in one hand with a teapot and four cups.

“Good. Set it down.” Farren waved a hand, and the oddly stereotypical butler set down the tray on her desk. He then sniffed the air, shook his head with an expression that looked something like regret, and left the room.

“Tea!” Farren declared. She grasped the pot’s handle, wetting it with ink, and then incautiously poured four cups. She slipped one toward her, then gestured toward the rest.

We graciously, if cautiously, accepted our tea cups. Mine was roughly half-full, with a good portion of the tea that had been aimed for it spilled on the tray instead.

It smelled delicious, though. I took a sip, only to find it was still scalding hot, and very nearly had to spit it out.

After a moment of silence while we sat and sampled our teas, Farren reclined in her chair and let out a sigh. “So, you’re all here. What shall we begin with?”

Sera set her tea down, smiling. “Miss Farren, thank you again for seeing us, and for your hospitality. If you don’t mind, we have some questions for you, and perhaps some boons to ask for.”

“Boons?” Farren’s eyes widened. “I don’t give those. Why would I give those? That sounds like a goddess thing. I don’t look like a goddess, do I? Of course not!”

Farren laughed awkwardly.

We just sort of stared at her for a second, then made the world’s most unconvincing laughter in reply.

Fortunately, Sera was quick to correct herself. “Ah, sorry. I meant ‘boon’ in a more colloquial sense. Just some small favors.”

“Oh! Favors. Yes, of course that’s what you would have meant. Right, right. Of course.” Farren chuckled, giving us a look like we were all in on the same joke. “So, what sort of favors were you thinking, young Invoker?” We had almost definitely not told anyone that Sera was, in specific, an Invoker. Perhaps the person at the door had recognized her attunement and written it down, but it was growing progressively clearer that Farren knewmore than she should...and that she was trying to hide that fact.

Badly. Comedically badly.

Maybe she was just pretending to hide things badly, as another layer of trickery? That sounded a little absurd, but Keras had warned me about Farren using obfuscating eccentricity to her advantage.

Sera gave a strained smile. “I believe each of us has something to ask you, but the main reason for our visit is in regards to your research.”

“It’s all perfectly legal, I assure you, in spite of what my siblings...” Farren winced, shook her head, then continued. “Sorry, sorry, tangent. I do that sometimes. Tea? Did we have tea? Yes, of course.” She reached for her teacup, sipped, and set the cup down. “Where were we?”

“As you likely know, we’re students from Valia that are here on our winter vacation between semesters. While we’re in Caelford, we were thinking that we could, perhaps, learn a bit about the work you’re doing here. Perhaps you could consider giving Corin and Cecily a bit of training, as a way of incentivizing them to come work here after they graduate and finish their service.”

Farren looked at Sera, tilting her head to the side in confusion, and nearly spilling her tea in the process. “Why wait that long? They can just come work for me now.”

I had to respond to that. “What do you mean?” Farren blinked. “I meant what I said, obviously.”

I took a breath. “We’re legally mandated to finish our last year at school and do our years of service. It’s not optional.”

“Oh, that? I already signed the paperwork. You’re fine, I just need to put it in the mail. Unless I already did.” Farren nodded, more to herself than to us. “I might have.”

“You might have mailed away...what exactly?” Sera asked.

“Oh, just papers to get you out of all that school and military nonsense. You’re here now, no need to go back. I’ll take care of it. Unless I already did.”

My mouth opened, then shut again.

I sincerely did not know how to respond to that, or to this person in general.

Sera was, it seemed, at least somewhat less flustered. Perhaps her time working with summoned monsters had acclimated her to dealing with people with unusual mindsets. “That’s very kind of you, but I don’t believe we’ve agreed to anything yet. Those papers you may have sent...they wouldn’t get us discharged without our own involvement, would they?”

“Oh, I suppose you could say ‘no’, if you wanted to. I don’t see why you would.” Farren set down her tea again, looking Sera straight in theeyes. “After all, now that you’ve had a taste of real power and knowledge, why would you settle for mediocrity?”

Sera’s eyes narrowed. “Our friends and family are back in Valia. And our teachers are not mediocre.”

Farren shrugged. “If you say so. And I suppose if you don’t want my help, you don’t need to accept it. I won’t waste time on you if you don’t want me to.”

Sera made a forced smile. “We’ll have to consider your...generous offer. Perhaps we could just spend a little time here to see the place before making any longer-term decisions?”

“Oh, yes, of course.” Farren nodded. “I suppose that would be the proper sequence of events. Yes. You may tour the facility. For…let’s say one work week? You can show up on the weekend if you want an extra day. And hm. Your scarring.”

Sera frowned. “What about it?”

“You want it fixed, right? We’ll make a trade, later. Visit me in a few days. Or less. Or more. Try to surprise me.”

“I...will do my best.” Sera turned to me. “Corin, did you have anything to ask her?”

I nodded.

Before I had a chance to speak, however, Farren turned to me. “Right.

Yes, I’ll teach you.” “You’ll...teach me?”

“Yes, I already said that, I think. Try to keep up, it’s very distracting when you fail to.” She shook her head. “Anyway, I believe that’s...no.” Farren turned to Cecily. “Go take your next Judgment, you’ll be fine. We’ll talk after that.”

Cecily stared at her. “I...will?”

“Yes, of course. I said so. Now, go ahead. I’m waiting for you.” Cecily gave me a helpless look.

I wasn’t quite sure what to say, either. “We’ll, uh, consider your offer.

When should I come back about...teaching?”

“Whenever you get here is fine. But not now.” Farren shook her head. “Definitely not now.”

I took a breath. “Right. Thank you.”

“No, don’t thank me. Not until we’ve started, which we definitely haven’t yet, I think.” Farren frowned, tried to sip tea that was no longer in her hand, and then stared into space for a moment.

Sera and I exchanged glances.

“Miss Farren, thank you for your time.”

“Never thank me for that, Sera.” Farren gave her a sharp look. “I didn’t give you any. It doesn’t belong to me.”

That was apparently enough strangeness even for Sera, so she bowed at the waist. “We’ll be going now.”

Farren stared at her without acknowledging that statement. We silently rose and left the room.

Nakht opened the door as we approached it, and we stepped outside. “This way.” Nakht began walking, presumably toward the entrance.

I gave one more backward glance toward Farren as the door closed on its own.

...or, I tried to, at least.

When I looked back through the open doorway, I saw only an empty and unfurnished white room.

***Later that night, I sat down on my bed in my hotel room. Cecily and Sera had a separate room, but they were temporarily visiting mine to strategize, so they sat across from me.

“Well,” I began, “That was the strangest way I’ve ever been terrified.”

Sera rubbed at her temples. “I...don’t even know where to begin. That was almost like talking to an elemental, but not of a variety I’ve ever seen. It seemed almost like she was...”

“...Not speaking to us in a linear order?” Cecily suggested.

“I was going to say ‘addled’, but yes, that’s a possibility. She certainly seemed to have difficulty with anything in regards to time, but I’m not sure I’d go as far as to assume she was speaking to us in a non-linear sequence. I would, perhaps, be inclined to believe she has seen events playing out in advance. Possibly multiple iterations of the same event, leading to confusion.”

“Chronomancy?” I speculated aloud. “I heard about a restricted attunement for that, but I wasn’t confident it was real.”

“I...don’t think it would require that. Diviners are better at seeing the past, but there’s a Seer attunement that focuses on the future.”

I rubbed at my chin, thinking. “That’s a Dalenos one, isn’t it? Not from Caelford?”

“That’d hardly be a restriction for someone with her resources,” Sera pointed out. “She could just make an attunement for herself, couldn’t she?”

Cecily shook her head. “I...don’t think it works like that. I mean, maybe it does for her, but from what I’ve read, artificial attunements don’t duplicate normal ones exactly.”

I turned to Cecily. “But they could emulate a specific function, including future sight, correct?”

“I guess so, but I don’t know for sure. I’m sorry.”

Sera gave Cecily a nudge. “You need to stop apologizing for not being omnipotent and omniscient, Ceci. No one expects you to be perfect.”

“I...” Cecily winced. “I’ll try to be better.”

“That’s...the opposite of what I was trying to say you needed to do. But never mind.” Sera sighed.

“Speaking of omnipotence and omniscience,” I interjected, “what are the odds that she’s Ferras?”

Cecily gasped.

Sera just rolled her eyes. “Let me guess — because of her name? Visage-based names are common. Unless you think Lawrence Wydmore is a visage, too.”

“It’s more than just that.” Admittedly, it was mostly that, but I kept talking anyway. “I mean, you heard her reaction to the word ‘boons’. And we know Ferras is more active about interacting with humans than most visages — maybe this is just one of her guises.”

“It’s not impossible,” Sera admitted. “But if she was Ferras, she could just hand out more attunements. Or design new ones herself. There would be no need for the whole facility.”

“Maybe it’s a method of encouraging humanity to be creative and figure out attunements on their own? It’s within the purview of the Visage of Creation to try to teach people to make things.”

“Can’t say that’s impossible, but it seems off. Farren seems too interested in getting her hands on an Arbiter for them to be the same person. Ferras could just make more Arbiters at will.”

“What if Ferras couldn’t for some reason? Maybe there’s a limit on how many Arbiters each visage is allowed to have? There certainly seem to be very few of us, and that ‘restricted’ thing has to mean something.”

Sera shrugged. “Not strictly impossible, but we’re getting pretty heavily into baseless speculation territory here.”

“Fair.” I nodded. “Sorry for the distraction.”

“It’s no problem. We’ll keep our eyes on her for any signs of visage- ness.” Sera took a breath, refocusing. “Okay. So, Farren might see the future, or might be living outside of linear time, or whatever. What does that mean for us?”

I considered that. “From a practical standpoint, very little changes, if that’s all there is to it. I mean, we should commit to not betraying her in any way if we think she can see the future.”

“Was...that ever the plan?” Cecily’s eyes widened.

“No, no.” I raised my hands in a defensive gesture. “Just saying, pragmatically, we need to play safer with her than we would have otherwise. It also means bluffing to her in any regard will be nearly impossible. Like, if we needed to negotiate a business deal, she’d presumably know what we were willing to bend on.”

“It’s possible she just gives people the impression she can see the future purely to get people to take that approach,” Sera pointed out. “Honestly, if I was in her position, I’d consider it. She has potential access to any number of powers that are unknown to anyone outside of her team. Faking virtual omniscience through some vague personality tics would be extremely effective.”

I was a pretty paranoid guy, but even I wouldn’t have guessed someone might fake something that strange. Still, I couldn’t discount it as a possibility.

That was, perhaps, a part of the problem — given her resources, disproving that she had any specific capability would be extremely difficult. So, if she implied future knowledge, or broad knowledge she shouldn’t have in general, it was easiest to just take that at face value.

After several moments of silence, I managed a statement. “I don’t likeit.”

“I doubt we’re intended to. She’s put us in a difficult position. One thatstrikes me as calculated, in spite of her seeming...distracted, shall we say.”

Sera glanced to Cecily. “Her statement about your Judgment was the most interesting to me. If you take a Judgment now and don’t return, it would show Corin and myself that Farren is unreliable. That’s quite a risk on her part, if she doesn’t have future knowledge.”

“...Meaning that she probably does know the outcome in advance?” Cecily asked.

Sera frowned. “She might, or she might be able to influence it. She could be a Whisper, for example, and intend to monitor your test and ensure the result.”

I pondered that. “Or she could simply not be that invested in our opinions of her, Sera. I don’t think Cecily should take a risk based on our guesses about Farren’s motives.”

“I’ll...think about it. Farren was right about one thing, though.” Cecily turned her head downward.

“Oh?” I asked.

“You two are worth more than me right now. I can’t keep up. I felt silly even being there.”

Sera leaned over and prodded Cecily on the arm. “None of that. We’re all just getting started. You have years to catch up in terms of mana.”

Cecily sighed. “But I just have one normal attunement. You two—” “—Have advantages and disadvantages,” Sera cut her off. “Remember,Derek is stronger than any of us, and he has a single standard attunement. Meltlake, too.”

I raised a finger. “I...actually think Meltlake might have an ascended attunement.”

Sera leaned over and hissed at me. “Not helping, Corin.”

“Sorry, sorry.” I winced. “But, uh, normal attunements obviously can ascend. So, Cecily, if what you want is an ascended attunement, we could try to figure that out?”

“I...don’t know what I want. I suppose an ascended Enchanter attunement would be interesting. What would that even do?” Cecily frowned, but not in sadness this time, more in an introspective sense. “I mean, enchanting people is more of a Biomancer thing, or an Arbiter thing, I suppose. So what additional functions do you think an ascended Enchanter would gain?”

I’d given that a bit of thought already. “Plenty of possibilities. I think the highest odds would be for functions similar to other item-modifying attunements. Maybe the ability to bind monsters to items like Soulblades, or the ability to create temporary items like Architects. It might also be something like automatic mana purification, similar to my Arbiter attunement.”

“You don’t think it would be totally unique?” Cecily asked.

I shrugged at that. “It might be, but Sera’s Invoker attunement strikes me as sort of a hybrid between a Summoner and a Shapeshifter. I figure other ascended attunements are likely to be the same way, but we don’t have enough data. If it does have a unique function…well, there are tons of options. Enhanced mana crystal creation. Imbuing your shroud with a passive enchantment effect. A library of stored runes.”

Cecily’s eyes widened. “A library? You mean it might just…tell you new enchantments?”

“Basically. I’m thinking of a function that has images and concept stored, and when you think about something — say, a rune for making fire— the attunement function just shows you those images and what they do.” “I suppose that’s possible…sort of like a memory crystal, but withinformation that displays when you’re thinking about it…” Cecily went silent, apparently caught up in contemplation.

“I hate to interrupt you two, but we need to focus a bit more on the main subject. Are we going back there tomorrow?” Sera asked.

“I think I am…in spite of any potential dangers, I think I need to learn more about what’s going on. As for Cecily, though...” I turned to her.

“Let me sleep on it. I don’t know. Taking another Judgment is a risk, but I don’t want to offend Miss Farren...”

Sera sighed. “You shouldn’t worry so much about what other people want you to do, Ceci.”

“I...I’m sorry. I’ll try not to.”

Sera and I both sighed at that reply. Then, Sera turned to me. “Okay. It’s been a long couple weeks of not doing anything, and I’m going out on the town. You’re not coming, because you hate people.”

It was not a question. She was correct.

I gave Sera a wave. “Don’t die in a way that would embarrass me.”

Sera snorted. “I would never dream of embarrassing the scion of House Cadence.” She turned to Cecily. “Come on. Let’s give Corin some room to read more about magic theory or whatever he thinks a vacation is for.”

I was, in fact, planning to read about magic theory. But not for the whole night, thank you.

...At least, probably not. Some of those books were very interesting, okay?Sera stood up, and Cecily followed her. I waved at them.

Cecily gave me one last look, like she wanted to say something, before silently following Sera out of the room.

***The next morning, we met up again to discuss our plans. “I...think I’m going to go.” Cecily told us. “To the spire, that is.”

I winced. I didn’t want to be too pushy, but I still felt like this was a terrible idea. “Are you sure? Even if Farren has future knowledge, we don’t know what she’s playing at. This could be a trap.”

“It’s fine.” Cecily shook her head. “I...think I need this. Even without Farren’s prompting, it’s what I was planning on doing when I got to Caelford. Ever since what happened with Mizuchi, I’ve felt worthless. Powerless. If there’s any chance I might get something in there that could help...”

I shook my head at Cecily. “You can’t think that way. We’re barely starting as attuned. There’s no point in looking down on ourselves just because we can’t handle the children of god beasts on our own yet.”

Sera snorted at me. “You’re one to talk. We’ve all heard your story.

You’re the king of self-deprecation.”

“I’m...like a minor earl of self-deprecation at best, sister, but I know you like to inflate the family’s status to make yourself look better.”

Cecily reached up and adjusted her glasses. “Thank you both. I appreciate your concern, but I’m going. If I don’t come back, you can always come rescue me, right?”

The half-smile she gave me was absolutely heart-breaking to look at. It reminded me of how much I’d already lost.

“Come on, then,” Sera grabbed Cecily by the hand. “We’ll go and wait for you outside, at least.”

I winced. “Uh, about that, Sera. Second Judgments take a lot longer. I don’t think we can do that.”

“We’ll wait for her outside, Corin.” Sera’s eyes narrowed.

“It’s...okay. Thank you. Corin is right.” Cecily smiled at Sera. “I’ve read about this. Second Judgments can take days or weeks.”

“Will you even be able to finish before our trip back, then?” Sera asked. “Well, Farren seemed to think so,” Cecily replied, uncertain.

“She really didn’t,” I pointed out. “She seemed to be planning on us skipping going back to Lorian Heights entirely. I really don’t appreciate that presumption.”

“It...wouldn’t be such a bad idea, though, would it?” Cecily asked. “I’m not really much of a fighter. I’d much rather work on things.”

I shrugged at her. “I’m just very tired of my life being dictated by others without asking my input first.”

Sera burst into laughter, enough that she started coughing. After a moment she raised a hand. “Sorry, sorry. I shouldn’t laugh, but...Corin, coming from you, that’s just...do you even have the slightest idea how lucky you are?”

I gave Sera a hard look. “I have a hard time calling myself lucky, Sera.

Do you think I was lucky that my father—”

“Please, not now, you two.” Cecily pulled her hand away from Sera, then folded both her hands. “I just...can’t.”

Sera sighed. “You’re right, Cecily. I’m sorry. We’ll...focus.” She took a breath, refocusing. “Okay. Even if we can’t stay with you the whole time, we can at least accompany you there. Would you like us to go with you to the gate, Cecily?”

Cecily nodded emphatically. “Please. I don’t want to be alone when I walk in the door.”

My mind rushed to memories of my Judgment, and how I’d felt when I first walked through that gate.

I gave Cecily a nod. “Of course. We’ll be with you right up until you go inside.”

And so, we took a train all the way back to the Tiger Spire, and headed to the Gate of Judgment.

The Tiger Spire wasn’t what I expected. For one thing, it didn’t look very much like a tiger.

The structure was far more simplistic; it was a pyramid, one constructed of hundreds of layers of blocks made from a substance I could not identify.

The blocks were white, much like Byakko’s fur was supposed to be. They were highly reflective, but not in the lustrous way of metal, and they lacked the translucence of crystal.

The material was, I realized as I grew closer, more reminiscent of rubber. But, given that the tower was so tall that it pierced into the clouds above, it couldn’t be entirely made of some kind of rubbery substance, could it?Was I simply seeing an outer layer on each block, with some other kind of material within? And if so, what was the purpose of this outer layer?These were the sorts of questions that people dedicated lives of research to, but for me, they were not currently important. All of my worry was dedicated to my friend, and if I needed to intervene on her behalf.

She had made her own choice, true, and she was an adult. But I’d been the one who had asked her to come with me to Caelford.

If she walked in that door and never returned, what portion of that was I responsible for?I tried to keep my thoughts on the matter to myself. It wasn’t wise to burden Cecily any further. She was clearly already nervous, but she had steeled herself for the risks that she was taking, and I wanted to respect that. We all stood in line together, but Sera and I paid little attention to each other. This was both because we wanted to focus on Cecily, and becausewe’d started an argument that we hadn’t yet had a chance to finish.

There were words lingering in the air between us, waiting to be said, but it was not the right time.

And so, with great trepidation, we waited.

It wasn’t a Judgment day for children coming of age. There wasn’t an impressive line. When the time came as we approached the Judgment Gate, I slipped my circlet off and handed it to Cecily. “It’s like a return bell. Use it if you need it.”

“I have a bell and the upgraded sigil, Corin. Don’t worry.”

I shook my head. “Take it anyway. Redundancy. You need it more than we do while we’re out here.”

Cecily grudgingly took the circlet. I told her the activation word and the limitations on it. Then, I went and turned in the anchor for it to a nearbymember of the Soaring Wings, who promised to set it up in their anchor room — a location at the nearby headquarters set up specifically for returning climbers who needed a safe place to teleport to.

She kept the anchor for her upgraded shield sigil on her, rather than turning that in. Since she already had the circlet as an escape route, the shield sigil and anchor could be used to teleport in other situations. She could toss the anchor across a pit to teleport across, for example. The range and regeneration rate on it were awful, but it was still a potentially useful tool.

Sera began to slip Ceris off her belt.

“No weapons allowed for Judgments, Sera.” Cecily shook her head. “I can’t take that one.”

“That’s true for Valia, but is the rule the same here?”

We checked with the guards at the door. It was, in fact, also true in Caelford. Cecily could bring magical items inside, but no weapons.

That was going to be a serious problem if I ever decided to take another Judgment myself.

Cecily handed over more money than I expected, signed her papers, and took a deep breath. “This is it.”

I took a breath. “Take care in there. We’ll see you at the exit gate.” Sera stepped in and hugged Cecily tightly. “Don’t die.”

“T...thanks.” Cecily pulled away from Sera, then looked to me. I nodded, opening my arms. “It’s okay for something like this.”

I braced myself. She hugged me. I did my best to hug her back. Then the tiger spire opened its maw, and Cecily stepped inside.

