CHAPTER IV – WHERE ATTUNEMENTS

ARE BORN

I spent much of that night worrying about Cecily, but I knew it wouldn’t do any good.

I couldn’t do anything to help her...could I?Maybe, as an Arbiter, I could get in there and figure out how to monitor her test...

Tristan had watched my Judgment, after all, and even intervened. I knew that Whispers had some involvement in the tests that occurred in the spires in general.

As an Arbiter, do I have the authority to do that sort of thing? And, if so, how would I go about exercising that authority?I knew precious little about what an Arbiter’s role was supposed to be in relationship to the towers. I wished Katashi had actually explained anything, but in the absence of that, I really needed to find another Arbiter to talk to — or at least someone with the knowledge of one.

Warren Constantine was the clearest example, but maybe someone else at Farren Labs could help me. I’d resolved to ask about it as soon as I got a better idea of what Farren’s motives were.

I did go visit Researcher in the other hotel room to ask some questions, but sadly, Researcher didn’t have any more information than what she’d already given me back in Valia. I hoped that now that Researcher didn’t have to worry about conflicting with her Summoner’s goals, she’d be able to tell me more — but she really didn’t seem to know anything else on the subject.

I worked through my feelings of powerlessness and frustration by practicing with my mana threads. By conjuring threads of mana and connecting them to my items, I hoped that I’d eventually be able to create effects that no single item could accomplish.

I didn’t make any breakthroughs that night, but it was good to have a task to set my mind to. Getting stronger was the only way I could fight off the feeling that I had, once again, lost someone I cared about to the depths of a Soaring Spire.

***In the morning, I ate breakfast, practiced some more, and then sat for a bit and waited for Sera to come to my hotel room.

She didn’t. Hours passed, and my nervousness grew.

Sera almost always woke up and got started before I did. I’d expected her to knock on my door first thing in the morning, waking me up to take me to the lab.

When that didn’t happen, I hoped that she’d just been up late out of worry, much like I had...but as the morning pressed on, I knew it had to be something more.

I went and found her room and knocked. No response.

I waited, then knocked again, louder.

Finally, I heard a groan and the sound of movement. “...Coming...”

I felt myself start to breathe again in relief.

The door swung open, revealing my severely disheveled sister. “Get in if you’re getting in, or let me sleep.”

I raised an eyebrow, then stepped inside. Sera closed the door behindher.

“You okay? It’s not like you to be...” I made a nonspecific gesture at herwhole body.

“Completely exhausted and somewhat irritated?” She asked.

“More like ‘dressed up as a medusa for a costume party’. You look like your hair got in a fight with the rest of your head and lost.”

“Thanks, Corin. You really know how to make your sister feel confident about her appearance.”

I rolled my eyes. “It’s my pleasure. Now, are you okay?”

“Well, aside from having my self-confidence utterly shattered by your callous words, I suppose I’m intact. If you’ll give me about an hour to throw myself in the shower to hide my tears, I’ll fill you in.”

“Wait. Before you go...is Cecily back?”

Sera shook her head. “No sign of her yet. I’m worried, but we knew it could take a while.”

“We did...I just still don’t like it.” I sighed and sat down. “Make the shower quick. We have business today.”

“You’re really enjoying being the early one today, aren’t you?”

I smirked. “It’s a rare occasion, I’m celebrating.” She groaned and stomped off to the showers.

I suspect she took longer than necessary just to spite me. When Sera finally emerged, I passed her a cup of hot tea.

“How uncharacteristically thoughtful of you.” Sera smirked. “Feeling guilty for earlier?”

“Please. Not in the slightest. I’m just being efficient.”

Sera rolled her eyes and accepted the tea. “Well, I accept your tribute, regardless.”

“So, it’s not like you to be up this late.”

“Observant as always, brother. It’s almost like you know me.” I took a sip of my own tea. “What happened?”

Sera smiled sweetly. “I paid a trip to Miss Farren last night.”

I very nearly spat out my tea, and not just because I’d made it a little bit hotter than expected. “What? When?”

“Middle of the night. She said to surprise her. I failed.” Sera shook her head. “I was correct that she was still at her office, at least. But she seemed to know when I was coming. She had food waiting for me, and it had been freshly prepared.”

I gave a grunt. “That’s one more point in the favor of future sight, or something like it, then.”

“Perhaps, or she simply had someone at the door inform her before I made it to her office, and she had a way of getting hot food in the time it took for me to make it through the halls. It wouldn’t be impossible.” Sera sighed. “But her preparation wasn’t the most concerning part.”

I frowned. “What should I be worried about now?” “She wants Ceris.”

My eyes narrowed. “That’s...concerning. Did she say why?”

Sera nodded, taking another drink of her tea before replying. Her throat was clearly still sore, in spite of her surgeries and all the recovery time. “Magical storage like what Ceris is capable of would be useful for her research, apparently. I think she wants to figure out how to duplicate it in order to make a new type of battery.”

I took a moment to ponder that. The claim made a degree of sense; Ceris seemed to be able to store a single spell effect, regardless of the mana cost. If it had any sort of capacity limit, it was tremendously high; it hadbeen able to work on spells like Elora’s Sapphire-level attack against Saffron, after all.

But Ceris was the symbol of a visage, and a potent weapon against the Children of the Tyrant. Simply using it as a foundation for research was practical, but I couldn’t possibly trust that it was her only motivation for wanting the sword.

“What is she offering?” I asked.

“Fixing my scarring entirely. She thinks her facility can do things that Sheridan couldn’t, due to their advanced knowledge of how attunements actually work.”

I gave a nod. “That would certainly be useful, but not necessarily ‘trade for an item of incalculable power and cultural significance’ kind of useful. And I’m not really confident that she could do better than Sheridan, anyway.”

“We’re in agreement, and I said ‘no’ for the time being, but I’m considering a counter offer.”

“You want an artificial attunement?”

Sera snorted. “Please, brother. Don’t deride my ambitions like you would my poor hair. I want five artificial attunements.”

I frowned at her. “There are several problems with that. I don’t know if I trust these things in general, and what about interference if they’re too close to each other?”

“Putting aside whether or not they work, the advantage of these artificial ones is that we can choose where they’re placed. I asked about that already. I could have one attunement on each body location, of a type chosen for compounding effects, like how your transference attunements work.”

I gave a slow nod. “I like the theory behind it, but if it’s that simple, we’d be seeing multiple people running around with six artificial attunements already.”

“Expense is likely an issue. I did some research on the market value of an artificial attunement — they go for hundreds of thousands of silver.”

I stared blankly. “Hundreds of thousands? You could buy a small city for that.”

“That’s an exaggeration, but you could buy an apartment complex, or a few hotels like this one. You could not, however, buy Ceris, the Song ofHarmony. This sword is priceless — and five attunements is frankly a cheap price to pay for it. I wouldn’t be considering it at all, but Ceris isn’t all that useful with my particular attunement.”

“I’m...not sure Katashi would be happy if you sold it.”

Sera shrugged. “Perhaps not, but I also sincerely doubt he would take any steps against me for it. And I’m not worried about him simply being disappointed.”

“Can...we do some research on these artificial attunements first? I feel like there’s a lot they’re not telling us.”

“Clearly. But I want you to know that, barring anything we find to disqualify the attunements, I am leaning toward offering that trade.”

I took a deep breath. “Okay. I suppose we need to get started with some research then, don’t we?”

“We certainly do. Just as soon as I completely change my hair style, since you’ve destroyed my confidence forever.”

***Sera did not, in fact, completely change her hair style. She did comb it and brush it for a while, though, and then pulled it back into a single tail. I though it looked pretty good that way, but I certainly wasn’t going to tell her that.

It was close to mid-day by the time we reached Farren Labs. Not an optimal start, but we weren’t exactly employees with a set start time, so I didn’t have to worry about it too much.

There was no attendant at the desk when we arrived. Instead, two figures were standing right behind the door waiting for us.

One of them was Nakht. His expression was completely neutral as we walked in, but from the way he had his arms folded, I got the impression he was a little irritated.

The other was an older dark-skinned woman wearing a dark blue suit. She wore some of the largest earrings that I’d ever seen; they looked like the fangs of a great tiger, and they were inscribed with dozens of tiny runes. I found myself briefly staring at them, wondering how she could fit so many enchantments into something made out of a fang. Was the material artificial?The woman spoke as we walked in, smiling brightly in a stark contrast to Nakht’s demeanor. “Good afternoon, Miss and Mister Cadence, andwelcome to Farren Labs. We’ll be your guides today. I’m Kahi Zephyr. I believe you’ve already met Nakht.”

Nakht gave a curt nod.

“Yes, we’ve had the pleasure.” Sera smiled. “Thank you both. Can I ask what we’ll be doing today?”

Kahi turned to Sera. “You’ll be going with Nakht to our Applied Summoning division. We have a number of uses for Summoners here, especially ones with some of the...unusual monsters that you have, Miss Cadence. And I believe you have a non-standard Summoner attunement?”

Sera gave a hesitant nod. “Something like that.”

“That’s quite exciting. Attunement variants are relatively rare, and we’re quite interested in cataloguing and studying them here.”

“I’m certain you are.” Sera gave a strained smile. “I’ll be interested to see what your facility has to offer.”

“I’m confident you’ll be satisfied by what you find. Before we begin, you’ll need to sign some initial paperwork. Some basic non-disclosure agreements, liability waivers, that sort of thing.”

We got to work on the stack of paperwork she handed us. I was rubbing my eyes by the end and hoping I hadn’t accidentally signed away my soul by missing a line or two.

“I’m surprised you’re letting us see much of anything if you’re working on secret projects here,” Sera noted.

“Oh, you won’t be seeing anything terribly secret today. All of the military projects are at another facility. The non-disclosure agreement is there mostly to make sure you don’t talk about any details of projects that haven’t been announced to the public yet, but you won’t get to see the really impressive stuff unless you’re actually hired — at which point you’d have to do a lot more than signing documents. We have magically binding contracts for that level of secrecy.”

I blinked. “Can you tell us how those magically binding contracts work?”

“If you reach that stage of the process, we can have someone explain that to you, yes.”

I nodded to her. “Okay, thank you.”

I suppose that means that things like the god beast attunements are probably at a different facility, but that’s okay. I don’t need to start withthose. Getting some foundation for how artificial attunements in general work first would be wise, anyway.

Kahi smiled brightly as we handed in our papers. “Excellent, thank you.

Now, before I forget, let me give you guest badges.”

She slipped two silvery cards out of a coat pocket, each attached to a lanyard, and handed them to us. “You’ll need to wear them at all times in the facility.”

I lifted mine, examining it. There wasn’t a name on it like one might have expected from a work badge; instead, it simply had a series of runes written across it.

That’s an information storage rune, similar to what I used on the mana watch, but for text rather than number values. And that one is something related to...an alarm, maybe? Oh, maybe some kind of authentication function for entering restricted areas...?Sera elbowed me. “Talk now, stare at enchantments later.”

“Right, sorry.” I took a breath, slipping the badge on. “When can we speak to Miss Farren again?”

Kahi gave us a very professional smile. “While you are both honored guests, Miss Farren’s time is limited, and she will be unavailable for much of the week. I’m confident we’ll have plenty to show you in the meantime, and hopefully you’ll know enough by that point to accept an offer of employment.”

I didn’t like the idea of waiting that long. I had a number of questions for Farren, but I also understood that she ran a company and couldn’t be available at our every whim. “Thank you. Can I ask where I’ll be going?”

“You’re coming with me, Master Cadence.” Kahi pointed down the hallway. “You’re going to see where new attunements are born.”

***Sera and I split off with our respective guides.

In spite of my nervousness about Cecily’s absence and splitting up from Sera, I could barely contain my excitement.

Ever since I’d heard about artificial attunements, I’d wanted to know more about them. The potential to distribute magical power without having to go through a potentially deadly climb would undoubtedly have a tremendous impact on the world...if they were ever allowed to spread.

Given what had happened with Echion, I had serious doubts that the visages would allow this sort of research to continue to the point that they became widespread in society. Unless, of course, the visages were removed from the equation entirely like the Godslayers faction wanted...or one or more visages decided to support the process.

I had a strong suspicion that one or more visages were already backing Farren Labs. They had been around long enough that I didn’t see how they could be functioning without a visage’s direct or indirect approval, especially given how active Ferras was supposed to be in Caelford’s society.

Wydd was very possibly involved, too, given both my brother and Sheridan’s connections with them. I wished I knew more about Wydd’s motives, but they were notoriously secretive, even to the other visages.

Finding Ferras and asking her directly about both artificial attunements— and helping Sera with her condition — was one of my agenda items for my visit to Caelford, but it needed to wait. Finding out more about Warren Constantine was a more immediate concern.

“Farren Labs is one of the largest employers of Enchanters on the entire continent,” Kahi explained. “This particular building houses branches of three of our divisions.”

As we walked down the hall, she waved toward a window I’d seen during our last visit. Within it, I could see people working on assembling and enchanting tremendous limbs of metal and stone. “This is one section of our Advanced Armor Division.”

“Advanced Armor?” I frowned. “Those look like golems to me.”

“Ah, they are. But look a little closer.” Kahi pointed at a corner of the room, where I saw a small team lifting up limbs of one of the golems to compare them against the limbs on an athletic woman wearing a heavily padded suit.

My eyes widened. “Wait. Hold on. You’re making wearable golems?” “That is an excellent way of summarizing our Advanced Armor. Wecreate golem shells that are custom fitted to a wearer, much like traditional plate armor would be. Advanced Armor has all of the functionality of a traditional golem, and work independently, but the area where it truly excels is when worn by an attuned. When someone wears a suit of Advanced Armor, it moves when they do — meaning that an ordinary human can havethe strength and physical resilience of a golem while they wear it. It provides an unparalleled level of physical power and protection.”

A good amount of that sounded like marketing speech, but I had to admit, I was still pretty sold on it. “But...how can you make it move along with a person? Is it connected to their mind somehow, or does it simply react to your motions?”

Kahi smiled. “You’ll be able to get answers to those sorts of questions if you end up choosing to work here. For the moment, I’m afraid your tour will only include information that is available to the public.”

I nodded. I knew there had to be a catch.

I gave the Advanced Armor Division one last look as we passed by, wondering exactly how difficult it would be for me to duplicate that sort of enchanting on my own. There were several elements of it that I could sort through how to build, but I could understand why Kahi was being secretive about the techniques necessary to make the golem move. That was, in my early assessment, probably the greatest challenge.

As I pondered, Kahi continued explaining. “Beyond obvious combat applications, our Advanced Armor Division is on the forefront of research into fully articulated prosthetics. In cases when healing magic is insufficient to restore a missing limb — a common problem here in Caelford, where we do not have many Menders — our Advanced Armor Division is capable of making a replacement limb that moves naturally with the rest of the body.”

That strongly implied that some sort of mental integration was being used, rather than simply physical motion copying. “Are these available for sale?”

“Not to the general public, at least not yet. Most of our current developments are for military contracts. A handful of prosthetics are in the early testing phases outside of that, mostly for people who work for the lab or their family members.”

I nodded. “I imagine they’ll be expensive when and if they’re eventually available to the public.”

“All of our products are priced competitively for the benefits that they offer.”

That was exactly the kind of marketing speech I expected, but I couldn’t blame Kahi for speaking in that fashion. It was a natural part of this style of work. “What are the other branches here?”

“We’re about to pass the Shielded Space Division. You won’t be able to see inside there right now, unfortunately. There are no windows, as that would compromise the purpose of the rooms.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Shielded Space...I take it that means the division is for building safe rooms for magical tests and experiments?”

“Yes, as well as general safety and privacy. Many of the rooms are designed for our own experiments, but we construct buildings for influential individuals that need defenses against scrying, or for powerful attuned that need areas where they can train safely without needing to worry about demolishing the area. For example, your own university’s Professor Meltlake owns a training facility of our creation.”

I blinked. “She does?”

Kahi nodded. “Your professor is one of the most powerful offensive magic users known. In order to test her spells properly, she trains in an extra dimensional space. The facility that transfers her to and from that space, as well as the interior of that space, were designed here at Farren Labs.”

That made a lot of sense. I’d seen the level of power of some of Meltlake’s spells, and she clearly had to practice them somehow. An extra dimensional training facility sounded like a good way for her to be able to train without annihilating city blocks. “...How expensive would something like that be?”

That question seemed to catch Kahi off-guard. “I don’t believe there’s a set price for a facility of that style. There are only a handful of them, and they’re generally built to order for the military or royal families. In Meltlake’s case, I believe she was given that facility in exchange for assistance with a certain advanced magic theory problem, rather than money. The cost to build a facility of that type would range from hundreds of thousands to millions of silver.”

I paused in my step. “Millions?”

“Many of our projects operate on that scale.” Kahi kept walking. “If you choose to work here, you may be able to participate in projects that would beggar the families of kings. And, perhaps, even use them to your own advantage if time and resources permit.”

I shook my head, struggling with the idea of how any company could have projects with that kind of cost. I understood that things like artificial attunements would have tremendous value — after all, they offered powerthat ordinarily required risking a life — but anything selling for millions of silver was beyond what I could have estimated.

This is a fairly transparent attempt to tempt me with the perks to working for them…but it’s working. It’s definitely working.

“Ah, here we are.” Kahi stopped at a door, waving a hand toward it. “The place you’ve been waiting to see. The Artificial Attunements Division. We have several facilities for this, but this is the central location for attunement research and development. It is also very likely where you would be working if you choose to accept Miss Farren’s offer.” She turned the handle and opened the door. “Come. See what the future holds.”

***When I’d imagined the Artificial Attunements Division, I’d expected it to look like the facilities where we tested Enchantments — basically a series of small rooms designed to contain unwelcome explosions and set off alarms if anyone was badly injured.

In fairness, this facility did have those, but that wasn’t what I walked into.

No, the Artificial Attunement Division looked more like a penny opera depiction of a mad wizard’s laboratory. There were dozens of tables covered in bottles holding many-hued concoctions, tools both common and unfamiliar strewn across every available surface, and a handful of people wearing rune-etched goggles and thick (often colorfully splattered) aprons.

My eyes widened as I saw someone hop over some kind of tool that was vibrating on the floor without even bothering to look down at it.

What in the goddess’ name…?“Welcome to our research center,” Kahi waved an open hand to indicate the room.

My mouth opened and closed wordlessly. I simply had no idea how to react to this. The golem-making facility had seemed organized, but this…“I can see the surprise on your face. Don’t be intimidated. You’ll learn to navigate the place quickly enough. To get you started, let me introduce you to one of our recent hires. He’ll explain how things work in this part of the facility and take care of you for the rest of the day.”

Kahi walked forward, deftly dodging as someone else ran past in an apron that was on fire, and headed toward a corner of the room. I stared at the flaming worker, only realizing after a moment that he wasn’t actuallybeing burned and the fire wasn’t spreading further. I watched as he tossed his burning apron down on a table, gave a cheer, and began to write feverishly on a notepad.

I paused my gawking only when Kahi turned and snapped her fingers at me, drawing my attention. “Come along, Corin. You’ll have plenty of time to look at specific designs later.”

Designs? Was that some kind of strange fire Enchantment, then? How is that even related to attunements?I frowned, considering as I finally moved to follow Kahi through the room. Fortunately, there were no further blazing individuals to dodge around. I saw a couple people mixing potion ingredients that I didn’t recognize, a few people discussing a series of runes on a chalk board, and just a couple working on what looked like more conventional Enchantments.

And then there was one last person, a skinny black-skinned man about my age with thick glasses and a strange crown-like device that covered both of his ears entirely. He stood in front of a table, staring at a featureless sheet of metal that was propped up against the wall behind it. At first, it looked like he was simply admiring a seemingly blank surface, until I noticed that he was tapping his fingers on the table’s edge in a strange rhythm.

On a hunch, I mentally activated my Detect Aura spell.

In an instant, my senses were flooded with new sources of magic, but this was nothing strange to me. I’d been in magic saturated areas before, and I acclimated fast, processing an incredible variety of mana sources flowing from items and people in the area.

The man in front of me had a standard Carnelian aura, but that wasn’t what got my attention. With Detect Aura active, I could see dozens of runes appearing on the surface of that metal sheet for just an instant, then vanishing to be replaced with new ones.

The runes themselves looked similar to the ones I was familiar with, but more compact, and flowing into each other more like a script. I had no idea what I was looking at, but it was fascinating.

Is…that some sort of runic language? And if it is, what does it mean?I tried to watch, but after a moment, the flickering of the runes bothered me so much that I had to turn my spell off. I blinked rapidly, trying to clear the afterimages from my eyes.

Kahi walked up right behind him. “Ashon, we have a visitor.”

The strange man continued focusing on the metal surface, seemingly unaware he was being talked to.

“Ashon. Ashon!” Kahi grabbed the crown on his head and pulled it up. “Aah!” Ashon spun in surprise, hitting his elbow on the table behindhim and knocking an etching rod on the ground. Then, as he flailed in momentary panic, he managed to trip on the fallen etching rod.

I surged forward as he fell backward, catching him by the front of his apron and pulling him back upright, purely out of instinct. For a moment, we were face-to-face, and he blinked at me through rune-etched spectacles.

“…Hi?” Ashon said.

Startled, I released his apron and stepped backward as he steadied himself. “Uh, hi.”

Kahi groaned, shaking her head. “Ashon, you need to be more careful around here, or you’re going to end up in the hospital again.”

“Oh, don’t worry, I’ve been working on my shroud’s defensive output, and…” He blinked. “Wait. Who are you again?”

“I’m Kahi, one of Miss Farren’s personal assistants. We’ve met… several times now. This,” she gestured at me, “Is Corin Cadence. He’s…”

“The new Arbiter! I’ve heard all about you.” Ashon reached to offer me a hand, then shook my hand rapidly and with great enthusiasm when I accepted. I pulled my hand back quickly, but as politely as possible.

Ashon brightened. “I have been so excited to open you up and get a look at—”

Kahi cleared her throat. “Please don’t scare him, Ashon.” She turned to me. “What Ashon means is that he’s a researcher for individual attunement function components, and that he’s interested in looking at the details of how your Arbiter attunement works.”

My eyes widened as my mind swam with the implications. “Function components…? Wait, hold on, back up.” I waved at the metallic surface. “Is that what you were doing with that thing? Looking at the component parts of an attunement?”

“Oh, no, no! That was some of my work on making a new supplementary component, which is…”

“…Not exactly your job.” Kahi interrupted. “Ashon, Miss Farren tolerates a good deal of your tendency to…wander, but I need you to focustoday. Corin is a guest here, and he has limited time to see what our facility has to offer as a place of long-term employment. He is both an Enchanter and an Arbiter, but he’s only just finished his first year at Lorian Heights, so his education in attunement design is minimal. You’re going to need to explain some things to him from the beginning.”

Ashon looked at her, then frowned. “I kind of hate that. I’m busy. Can you bring him back when he’s ready for me to look at?”

“No.”

They stared at each other for a moment. Ashon eventually shrugged, ripped off his crown the rest of the way and tossed it on the table. “Fine, but you have to approve my next idea, no matter what it is.”

“That is…not how anything works, Ashon.” Kahi turned away from him, giving me a tense smile. “I’m sorry for this. Ashon is the best source of information on artificial attunement fundamentals we have available right now.”

I gave Kahi a nod. I understood her trepidation about leaving me with Ashon, given his unusual behavior and enthusiasm, but…honestly, I didn’t really mind it. High energy people often drained me very quickly, but I was so interested in this subject that I was happy to deal with someone who was enthusiastic about it, at least for a little while. “I’ll be fine. Thanks for showing me around.”

“I’ll be back to pick you up for the end of the day. Did you see the cafeteria?”

I shook my head. She gave me some brief directions, explained the hours of operation of the cafeteria, and then left me alone with Ashon.

I turned back to find him staring at my glove-covered hand. “What are you…? Oh. The attunement.”

“If you could just take that glove off for a moment, and maybe give me a minute to take just a small sample…”

I briefly wondered if this was how I came across to people when I was in one of my own bouts of fixation. “Not right now, Ashon. I need to understand some of the basics of how this stuff works before I can show you anything.”

He deflated at that. “…Fine. I suppose we’ll start from the beginning.” “Which is?”

“Well…” He frowned. “Words are hard. It’s easier to show you.” He pushed himself away from the table, very nearly tripping over the still- fallen etching rod again. “Follow me.”

***Ashon led me to a small side-room with a couch, some chairs, and several bookshelves on the walls. One corner of the room had a chalk board on it. He walked over to the board, then picked up a piece of chalk. “Attunements. How do they work?”

“Well, I—”

“Rhetorical question,” he shook his head. “You’re new, you have no idea.”

I frowned, but didn’t interject further.

He turned back to the board, beginning to draw. The first figure was a familiar symbol — an Enchanter attunement.

“This,” he pointed to the center, “is a rune. All enchantments have runes. But this particular rune is a lie.”

“A lie?”

“Don’t interrupt. But yes. Total lie.” He drew an “x” over the rune. “When people look at this rune, they think they see an attunement. They don’t. This is just a pretty picture. It’s utterly functionless. Meaningless.”

I blinked.

Ashon continued. “Where does this symbol come from, then, you ask?” I didn’t ask.

“This comes from one of the many, many function runes inside your attunement. In specific, the ‘display current attunement level’ function.”

My mind swam at the implications of that. “Wait, hold on. I can obviously see how an enchantment could make an image, but if runes are meaningless, why do they change with levels, specializations, and generations?”

Ashon rolled his eyes. “I don’t know, maybe it means something in some kind of weird visage language. Or maybe Selys made them work this way because she wanted attunements to be identifiable at a glance. The important part is that the power isn’t in the symbol. The symbol results from the power, not the other way around.”

I frowned at that. “I saw Katashi draw an extra line on someone’s attunement to make it stronger. You’re implying that was just…what, a theatrical flourish?”

“Sure, or intentional misdirection. Visages don’t like giving away information on how attunements work for free.”

“Okay, wait. I can see all that, but if the rune isn’t the focal point for the attunement, then—”

He turned away with a bored expression and ignored my latest question, drawing more runes. And more runes. And more runes.

“These,” he explained, “Are some of the other basic functions for an attunement. This,” he waved at one, “provides you with access to mental mana. This next one determines how quickly you draw it in from the environment. This one…”

Something clicked. “Sets your capacity for that mana type?” I guessed. “Correct.” Ashon blinked. “Faster than I expected.”

I waved at the board. “So, you’re saying attunements are…what, a sort of meta-enchantment that contains other enchantments?”

“That’s…exactly right. Have you studied this before?”

I shook my head. “Not in any detail, but it makes sense to me. I knew Enchanters and Biomancers or Arbiters were involved with making attunements. I’d been puzzling over how attunements work, but if they basically have ‘hidden’ runes for various different functions, that actually makes things pretty simple. Sort of like compound runes.”

“I don’t think I’ve ever heard anyone call this simple before.”

I shrugged. “There might be a lot of components, but it sounds like the foundation is basically the same as standard enchanting. I’ve heard about compound runes before, but we’re not supposed to study them until nextyear. If there’s a function rune for giving access to mental mana, I assume there’s one for each type?”

Ashon nodded slowly. “Well, they’re not exactly function runes, but you’re essentially right.”

“Makes sense…things for anything the attunement does. So, shroud generation, detecting power for other shrouds, unique functions…”

“Huh. Seems like you might not need the super basic version. Okay.

Can I see your hand?”

I sighed. “No. Not right now. You mentioned that there’s a function for displaying current attunement level. That means your attunement ‘knows’ your level somehow. Does that mean there’s a rune that’s constantly detecting your safe mana capacity, or is it accomplished through some other means?”

“It’s basically that, but thinking of it in rune form isn’t exactly right. Maybe I shouldn’t have drawn rune pictures.” He paused. “Definitely shouldn’t have. Oh well, we’ll clarify later. There’s something that measures the mana in your body, then another function that governs what qualifies as safe. Then, there’s another function that sets the thresholds for what determines each attunement level. Oh, and that’s modified if there’s a mana-specialization function in place… Then, there are other functions to activate at specific level thresholds…”

“Wait. If they’re not runes, what’s controlling all this?”

He shook his head. “They’re sort of runes. We’ll get to that. One thing at a time.”

“Ah. Got it.” A grin crossed my face. “How easy are these to change?” “Ch…change?” He stared at me. “Oh, no. You do not want to changethese things. That is very, very unsafe.”

“But you were looking into adding more? That’s what you were doing earlier, right?”

He hesitated for a moment, then answered. “Yes, but…that’s for new attunement designs, not existing ones.”

“Why?” I asked.

“Once someone has an attunement, the body gradually acclimates to it. Modifying it after it’s already in the body is…risky. It’s possible, but the side effects…” He shook his head. “I wouldn’t try it.”

I definitely planned to try it.

But I wasn’t going to say that. Not right away, at least.

“Okay, never mind that. You wanted to look at my attunement. Presumably, that’s to figure out how exactly the unique functions of the Arbiter attunement work, so you can duplicate it somehow?”

“Right, right. We have spells for visualizing the component enchantments within an attunement.”

“And they look like that script you were looking at earlier? Ah, is that what you mean by ‘not exactly runes’?”

“That’s a little ahead of where I was planning to discuss today, but yes, that script is what I was talking about. And if you’d just let me see—”

“Not until I’ve decided if I’m going to work here.”

He deflated a little, but nodded. “Fine, fine. If you insist.”

“…But I’d be more inclined toward accepting if you teach me that attunement component visualization spell and how to identify those component runes, so I can try it on myself.”

“Hm.” He rubbed at his chin. “I guess I’m not technically disallowed from teaching you that. And if you might work here…I guess you’re going to need to learn it eventually.”

I grinned. “Excellent. Shall we get started?”

***Learning the “Analyze Attunement Composition” spell was surprisingly straightforward. It required putting my hand on the attunement, then pushing mental mana into the attunement, then creating a “link” between that mental mana and my mind.

It reminded me of my mana threads, but internal, rather than external. The same could be done with other people’s attunements, but the process would require overwhelming any magical defenses on the target. Physical contact was generally required for that sort of thing, at least at my level.

The difficult part wasn’t establishing that connection — it was being able to parse through the runes that appeared in my mind.

While the core concept of attunements being composed of a set of enchantments was simple, the reality of it was somewhat more challenging.

Each individual function — like, say, shroud generation — wasn’t just one rune. It was a set of rune-like symbols, and every single symbol within that set also had symbols inside it, which I could see if I focused my mindhard enough. Those internal symbols were an entirely new language that I couldn’t read, similar to the glyphs I’d seen Ashon looking at.

And with that, I began to understand the problem, and the tremendous amount of effort that must have gone into creating these artificial attunements in the first place.

“So, to make these artificial attunements, you’re basically having to decrypt what each individual attunement function does, then figure out how to duplicate it.”

Ashon nodded. “Exactly! And the larger the set of existing attunements we have to research, the more functions we can draw from in creating artificial attunements. Of course, it would be much more exciting to write new attunement functions from scratch…”

“Which is what you were working on. Got it. But what was that spell, exactly?”

“It was a verification spell. It’s designed for checking if a specific sub- glyph combination produces a valid result.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. “How can a spell verify that anything would work without actually testing it on a person or item?”

“Don’t know, exactly. I didn’t make the spell. The spell connects to some kind of external knowledge source to get the answer. Where that knowledge is located…” Ashon shrugged at me.

Hm. Maybe he’s drawing information directly from one of those dominions that Keras is always talking about. If there’s a dominion of knowledge, it may have stored information on what valid rune combinations are…“Can you teach me that spell?” I asked.

“Sorry, no. Not now, at least. That one is definitely a business secret.

Maybe if you get hired and spend some time here.”

That was a bit disappointing, but I could understand why. Given that runes were often patented, a spell that checked the validity of sub-glyph combinations was a hugely valuable tool. Honestly, he probably shouldn’t have even told me the spell existed — which was presumably part of why Kahi was so irritated that he’d been tinkering with it.

“How about any other related spells?”

He considered that question. “Well, I can teach you Accelerated Computation. It’s pretty basic mental magic. You can use it to parse throughsub-glyphs faster…but don’t use it for too long. It gives me awful headaches, and I’ve got a lot more mana than you do.”

He probably didn’t have a lot more mana than I did, but I didn’t say that. I wasn’t sure how much he knew about my general capabilities and didn’t plan to offer any more information than I had to.

Even if I did have a decent supply of mana, I winced at the idea of straining my mind with something like that. It sounded horrifying, like exactly the sort of spell that could ruin my mind permanently. The fear of doing myself permanent cognitive damage was so great that it almost made me refuse the offer.

Almost.

As terrifying as the spell sounded, my mind was racing with possibilities for using it, too. This sounded exactly like the sort of spell that could be used to make my Haste more effective. It wouldn’t let me move organically under Haste like a perception spell would, but if I could perfectly compute exactly where to move…“Yeah.” I nodded, my expression hardening as I considered. “Teach me that spell.”

***By the time I headed home, I had a splitting headache from experimenting with mental mana spells, but for once, the abject horror at the possible consequences was overwhelmed by the sheer weight of potential benefits.

I’d learned so much.

It was still far from enough to actually try to make modifications to attunements, let alone try to make my own functions…but I’d cracked open my own attunements and looked inside. That was an enthralling concept.

Someday, I’ll do more than just take a look.

Ashon wasn’t patient enough to actually teach me any sub-glyphs, but he did hand me a book on the subject, and I’d greedily devoured everything I could. He hadn’t let me keep the book, but he said I could keep reading the next day if I came back.

So, I did.

I spent the next few days visiting the lab, studying, and asking more questions. Notably, I learned a little bit more about compound runes —runes with multiple functions. I’d heard about those before, and even seen a few, but I hadn’t previously understood how they worked.

Broadly speaking, any rune with multiple functions was a compound rune. This general term encompassed several different things, three of which were covered in my introductory lessons.

First and simplest were multi-runes. Multi-runes were the most common type, and they both looked and functioned much like typical runes, just with lots of lines to incorporate different features.

The most common multi-runes included capacity, recharge, and a single function of the same type. A basic example would be a rune with a regeneration function, a life mana recharge feature, and a life mana capacity feature. The rune for this would look like a regeneration function rune, but with an extra line for recharge and the extra bracket-looking lines around it for capacity. There would also be lines to signify the levels of each, if it’s a higher-than-Quartz enchantment.

The only thing missing from these common multi-runes is an activation rune, which is generally still separate. With a multi-rune like this and an activation rune, you can make a functional item with two runes instead of the standard four or more.

The idea behind multi-runes is simple enough: reducing the necessary number of runes for an Enchanter to draw in order to make enchanting faster and easier. They’re commonly used in mass-production for factory- made enchantments.

The problem is that multi-runes require all the necessary mana for any features in that rune. Let’s say an ordinary Carnelian-level regeneration item normally has three life-based runes — function, recharge, and capacity— each of which cost sixty mana to charge. A multi-rune incorporating all three would require the total mana for all three runes, or one-hundred and eighty mana. Thus, someone who is just at the cusp of Carnelian and only has sixty mana could make a standard item, but couldn’t afford the mana cost to make the multi-rune version.

Similarly, this means that any multi-rune item you’re making is — by necessity — going to be weaker than whatever your own maximum mana is, since you’re basically splitting your mana three ways to make it. For that reason, I didn’t envision myself making a lot of multi-rune items. I preferred to take the time to put the strongest individual runes on an item that I could afford. The only exception was emergency situations, like when I made my rock of regeneration to help Vera. In that kind of scenario, slapping a multi-rune onto an item might be a good approach.

Next, there were runestones. The term “runestone” was something of a misnomer, as it didn’t necessarily refer to stones: rather, it was a term for any form of rune crafted in three-dimensions rather than two. These were extremely complex and I didn’t get a good idea of how they worked, but the general idea was that they worked something like multi-runes, but with a vastly greater number of available features. Presumably, this was due to the higher number of visual permutations available on three-dimensional figure, but I didn’t find a lot of details. They were very rarely used by ordinary Enchanters due to prohibitive mana costs and raw material requirements.

I’d seen runestones before without knowing what they were, most notably in the prison within the spire where I’d first met Vera and Keras. I hoped to study those eventually, but for the moment, I had a higher priority. I was much more interested in the third and final type of compound runes that I’d learned about: dynamic runes.

Dynamic runes were the type of compound runes that worked the most similarly to attunements. A dynamic rune did absolutely nothing on its own. Instead, a dynamic rune was “primed” to accept sub-glyphs of the appropriate element. You can think of a dynamic rune as being like an empty container for magical functions. Once you had charged a dynamic rune with mana, you could use a spell called “Apply Sub-Glyphs” to “write” the sub-glyphs for the dynamic rune. This wouldn’t change the dynamic rune’s outward appearance unless you added a function specifically for that.

I researched the Apply Sub-Glyphs spell and figured out how to use it; it was basically an extension of the Analyze Attunement Composition spell I’d already been working on. Relatedly, sub-glyphs could also be edited after being written by using the Analyze Attunement Composition spell. (Really, “Analyze Attunement Composition” should have been named “Analyze Sub-Glyphs”, but I digress.)While dynamic runes were theoretically usable by any Enchanter, they had several downsides. The main issue was needing to learn a significant amount of sub-glyph language just to make basic functions. Apparently, just figuring out how to make something as simple as a dueling cane through dynamic runes generally took years of study.

Due to their complexity, dynamic runes were also prone to failures and accidents. It was easy to make a dynamic rune that didn’t do anything at all due to an error in sub-glyph language. More serious mistakes could cause deadly consequences: a failure to write a proper capacity function could make the whole item explode, for example.

Beyond that, there was also making sure that the dynamic rune was set up to hold the right amount of mana for any functions that were written in it, which was a complex endeavor in itself.

All in all, most Enchanters would never bother using dynamic runes, but I absolutely planned to study them. They had the potential to allow for levels of customization that I found enthralling, but I knew that it would be a significant amount of time before I was writing any on my own.

Visually, a dynamic rune looked a lot like a single rune for an element, but with unique pointed symbols above and below.

The knowledge of how compound runes worked opened some doors in my mind. I’d known Selys-Lyann had too few runes on it to handle the types of abilities it provided, and I’d suspected they were compound, but I didn’t have any way of evaluating them properly before. Now, I could eventually plan to analyze their sub-glyphs to figure out more about how the sword functioned.

Maybe I’ll be able to figure out how to interface with the sword’s spirit functions and get better control of it…but I probably should wait a while.

Once I crack that, though…maybe I can start making some of these myself. I wonder if there’s a class on this for second year students. I’d better pick up all the books I can here in case there isn’t.

Either way, learning this is going to take a while.

Sub-glyphs were an entire language, after all, and I was prioritizing studying the sub-glyphs related to attunement functions. Compound runes were another entire field of research.

I learned enough to understand some of the basic sub-glyphs within each of the major functions of my own attunements, but even as the end of the week approached, I wasn’t at all confident in my ability to tinker with anything safely.

That was, of course, exactly what Annabelle Farren must have wanted.

She’d given me bait. Just enough information to realize the vast potential of learning sub-glyphs and getting involved with modifying attunements, but not enough to do it myself.

And even if I’d learned the details of the sub-glyphs, the rest of the week made it clear that I didn’t actually have the resources to make entirely new attunements on my own.

They didn’t show me the whole process — trade secrets and all that — but they did show me enough to understand that it was expensive.

They had a facility for creating attunement primers, which were basically the same thing as that liquid I’d taken from the spire and given to Sera. That primer itself was tremendously expensive, but cheap compared to the rest of the process.

The more expensive part was creating what they called an “attunement application enchantment”.

Basically, it was an enchantment that, when activated, cast a spell on someone and gave them the desired attunement after they drank the primer.

The component parts necessary to create that enchantment were colossally expensive. The most obvious were Class 4 mana crystals for every mana type the attunement was giving out, as well as several more crystals for other functions.

Then, there was the cost of the “applicator”, the device that was used to apply the enchantment itself. Those were also extremely expensive because they were made from a rare material (they wouldn’t tell me what it was) with a tremendously high mana capacity, which was necessary to hold all of the functions for the attunement application enchantment.

The end of the process created an attunement vial – a vial of liquid holding a primer, with a cap that served as an applicator. To gain an artificial attunement, someone would drink the primer, then press the applicator cap against their body and speak a command word, activating the applicator and creating the artificial attunement.

This also had to be done in a safe environment, often with other spells being used to suppress existing attunements to avoid interference with the process — otherwise you could get things like Sera’s contracts interfering and causing bad things to happen when someone drank the primer.

All in all? The cost of a single artificial attunement was absolutely ludicrous. They weren’t generally sold to the public — only to people like corporate investors, national leaders, and military officials — but when they were sold, it was for hundreds of thousands of silver. That was comparable to multiple Emerald-level items or at least a city block worth of property.

I had absolutely no hope of affording to buy something like that. Even buying the component parts and trying to make the applicator myself was both well beyond my finances and beyond my enchanting ability. Each of the component enchantments for making an applicator was somewhere in the Citrine range.

Which is, of course, how Caelford — which didn’t ordinarily get Enchanters from their local spire — managed to hook a number of promising Enchanters into working on their projects.

“If an Enchanter works here for four years,” Kahi explained, “they get an artificial attunement vial, as well as free use of our facilities to apply the vial to themselves or a chosen recipient. I’m sure by now you understand exactly how good of a deal that is. And as an Arbiter, we’re willing to offer you something extra if you agree to work with us.”

With two days left of my tour of Farren Labs, I headed back to the hotel with a job offer that would be terribly difficult to refuse.

