RECAP – SUFFICIENTLY ADVANCED MAGIC AND ON THE SHOULDERS OF TITANS

By Sera Cadence

Since most of us have already heard Corin’s version of the first year at Lorian Heights at least once or twice now, I’m going to do us all a favor and sum it up a little faster than he would.

I’m Sera Cadence, the intrepid heroine of our story.

I was raised as “Sera Shard”, daughter of Anette Shard. Mom was a retainer to Laura Lyran, the lady of House Lyran.

Laura Lyran was a great woman. I always respected her, and she always treated me well. Her husband, Magnus Cadence, was far more distant. He was a strict disciplinarian, even then, but nowhere near as much as he’d get to be after they split up. Magnus also seemed to want to avoid me. At the time, I didn’t understand why.

I never knew who my father was. Mom was deliberately evasive; she always told me that it didn’t matter, or that she’d tell me when I was old enough to handle it.

It bothered me, but I didn’t have any recourse. I tried figuring it out on my own. I daydreamed about possibilities, like my father being some sort of heroic adventurer who had left us on an epic quest to save the world. Or maybe dad wasn’t even human — he could be a dragon, or even one of the visages...

I daydreamed a lot in general.

I was raised with the assumption that I’d be the primary retainer for Corin, much like my mother was for Corin’s mother. Corin wasn’t too bad of a kid. He was a little introverted, even back then, but so was I. We’d read together.

His older brother, Tristan...he was less kind. I didn’t understand until much more recently that Tristan had probably inherited some of his father’s methods of “discipline” for people who weren’t behaving the way he wanted them to.

So, I’ll be honest — when Tristan disappeared into the Serpent Spire when Corin and I were twelve, my first emotion was relief.

That relief quickly faded when I saw the consequences. Lady Lyran’s relationship with Lord Cadence became strained. A bit later, they split up entirely. Poor Corin was absolutely heartbroken.

Lady Lyran began to devote all of her time and resources toward climbing the spires, hoping to discover what had happened to Tristan.

Meanwhile, I had less and less time with Corin, until finally Magnus pulled Corin out of school entirely for private “training”.

Again, I didn’t understand what that meant at the time. If I had known... I’m sorry, Corin. For what it’s worth, I don’t think your mother knew how bad it was, either. That doesn’t excuse her for walking away from you, but I hope it lends some context.

We wrote to you, too. I guess Magnus was screening your letters.

The next few years were much easier for me than they were for Corin. I still had regular friends that I saw at school, like Patrick and Roland. We practiced our dueling and academics together to prepare for our Judgments.

And then, when we turned seventeen, it was time. I knew that there was a chance I’d never leave the Serpent Spire. Tristan wasn’t the only child who had disappeared during a Judgment — a good two in ten or so did.

But for the most part, I was excited.

If I earned an attunement, I’d finally be able to start making my own way in life. I’d have magic. It was something I’d always dreamed about. And maybe I’d be able to get back to seeing Corin again, since I never had any doubt that he’d succeed at his own test.

And so, I took my Judgment.

Unlike Corin, I don’t remember exactly what happened in mine. Most people have their memories of their Judgment wiped when they leave thetower, so they can’t explain the test to others. It’s like waking up from a dream; you might remember bits and pieces, but they quickly fade.

I do know what happened, though, because I apparently made some interesting decisions in there...such as backtracking after I’d earned my attunement.

You see, I earned a Summoner attunement. That allows me to make contracts with monsters. In exchange for offering a monster a portion of the mana that my body generates, I can get a bit of power from the monster. The more mana I offer, the more power they give me.

The name “Summoner” comes from a more advanced feature of the attunement — we can summon a copy of any monster we establish a contract with, provided we have enough mana to sustain the copy, and we follow certain rules that are established in the contract.

Apparently, I was feeling ambitious after I earned my attunement, and I walked back through the spire to where I’d seen a particular monster.

That monster was Seiryu: The God Serpent. The monster the Serpent Spire itself was named after. A divine beast with power only matched by the other god beasts, and of course the goddess Selys herself. Maybe the Tyrant in Gold, too, but he doesn’t count.

So, anyway, a fresh new Summoner making a contract with a monster of that level of power was an absolutely absurd idea, and I’m very proud of myself for thinking of it.

Seiryu was apparently amused, too, because she accepted my deal. The terms required that I not talk about it until I was powerful enough to summon her on my own. I think that was less about her pride and more about my own safety; there are a lot of people who would try to exploit a novice Summoner with such a powerful contract.

The contract came with some other stipulations, too. I can draw on bits of her power anywhere, but I can’t actually summon copies of her outside of the spires. Maybe I can get around that someday by renegotiating my contract, but I’ll need to be much stronger for that.

I also owe her a favor, because I didn’t have enough mana to make a “standard” contract with her. I won’t go into the details on that right now, but suffice to say that I might need to disappear for a while at some point to handle that.

Anyway, I got my attunement and headed home.

Mom was ecstatic. I’m sure Lady Lyran would have been, too, but she wasn’t home.

And then Mom told me something she’d always promised to — it was time to meet my father.

And she took me to meet Magnus Cadence, who I’d met many times before.

I’m ashamed to say that I’d never really considered him to be a serious possibility. I’d grown up around the Cadence family, but the idea of being an illegitimate child...well, it didn’t really fit the fantasies I’d pictured.

But I was still glad. I was so very glad to have a father. And the fact that I knew him made it better in some ways, at least at first. He was familiar, and he’d already been an influence on me when I was young.

He was also powerful, famous, and a nobleman. That wasn’t half bad.

And since I’d earned a Summoner attunement — broadly considered to be one of the most powerful in the kingdom — he legitimized me.

I was proud. And when I heard Corin had gotten an attunement that wasn’t quite as popular, I admit I took a bit of pride in that. I’m sorry.

It’s not that I ever disliked you, Corin. It’s more that I’d been raised to believe I was inferior to you. That at best, I’d be your loyal servant. Maybe throw myself in the way of some kind of attack and die so that you’d survive. That was the romantic ideal for being a retainer.

But as your sister, with an attunement that was arguably more prestigious than yours, something that I’d earned...well, it felt good. It felt like I’d finally proven that I could be your equal, maybe even more than your equal.

I never wanted to hurt you or anything. I just wanted to be treated with respect.

I wanted to be your family, not your servant.

And for a little while, it seemed like that would work out okay. I knew Magnus was probably trying to play us against each other, but I also knew neither of us was going to fall for that nonsense.

I loved and cherished getting to know you again once we headed to the academy together.

I was thrilled when we reunited with Patrick, one of our oldest friends, and that he’d earned a good attunement, too.

Our first few months at the school were pretty smooth, at least from my perspective.

Corin was getting into all sorts of nonsense. You see, during his time in the spire, he’d done a couple unusual things, too.

First, he’d picked up a book, Trials of Judgment, that kept having new messages appear inside. He followed some of the advice of the book and ignored other bits.

One particularly important part was that he found a jail cell inside the tower after finding a secret passage, and he managed to let out all of the prisoners inside.

One of them was Vera, a researcher of artificial attunements from Caelford.

Another was a small child, Echion, who Vera had been running tests on.

Corin didn’t know about their connection at the time.

And the last was Keras Selyrian, who is so absolutely ridiculous I’m not even going to bother trying to explain everything about him right now. He’s basically some kind of foreign demigod swordsman with the most convoluted backstory I’ve ever heard.

Anyway, Corin got into some trouble with Katashi, the Visage of Valor, for letting people out of prison — and that whole affair set off a bunch of other events that would come up later. As one of the six visages of the goddess, Katashi was one of the most powerful entities in the world, so getting on his bad side was kind of a bad move on my brother’s part. Keras somehow decided fighting a visage of the goddess was a good idea and bought some time for the others to escape.

Corin got betrayed by Vera a little bit on the way out, but still managed to earn his attunement, even if it ended up being kind of a terrible one. Enchanter is better than nothing, but certainly not as good as my own Summoner mark.

Anyway, he kept the book after escaping the tower, and the book convinced him to talk to Professor Orden at the school. She started both training him and manipulating him, because she’s actually one of the villains of the story and they do that sort of thing.

Yeah, I’m skipping ahead a little. That’s fine. This is a long story; I need to do things like that.

Important things happened at the school. I met Marissa, who is the best puncher in our generation, and Jin, who is sneaky and enjoys creepily stalking Corin for some reason. They both joined our team for our yearly exams, because I’m not the only one who has made some questionable life choices.

I also met Derek Hartigan, an old classmate of Tristan’s. Derek and I participated in an arena-style sport called a Survival Match where we fought a bunch of monsters for money. It was awesome, and I used it to make bindings on a bunch of monsters. Bindings are like contracts, but more limited in scope; I can’t do all the same things with a binding that I can with a contract.

That was also when I met Vanniv, who is second only to me in importance in this story. Vanniv is a karvensi, a type of winged humanoid with stone-like skin and literal rock-hard abs. He also has abilities similar to an Elementalist and a flirtatious disposition.

Vanniv and I got along immediately, and we figured out some shenanigans to upgrade the binding I put on him to a full contract.

After that, while we were taking one of our exams, there was an earthquake and the environmental shield around our city disappeared. That’s bad. That isn’t supposed to happen.

The team and I headed to the Serpent Spire at the behest of Professor Orden, where we all very nearly died. That was also bad.

Corin made a deal with Katashi, who was angry. That was worse.

After that, we had to scramble to figure out where Vera — that artificial attunement researcher that Corin had broken out of the spire’s prison — was located. We then convinced her to go back to the tower along with us.

Once inside the spire, Orden betrayed us, used a ring to control Derek, and tried to kidnap Vera for her own purposes.

I drank something that I probably shouldn’t have (an attunement primer potion that Corin gave me), temporarily vastly increasing my power, and summoned Seiryu to save us. That worked, but at a cost — I lost my voice and the ability to use magic.

Yeah, that was pretty awful.

Corin managed to sort things out with Katashi, turning over Vera and earning himself a second attunement in the process — an “Arbiter” attunement, which meant that he’d worked directly for one of the visages. Itwas a rare “restricted” attunement that almost no one received, so it was pretty important. It also let him do some unusual things, like make other attuned more powerful temporarily, as well as interact with the mana in human bodies in general.

He also tried to get Katashi to heal me, but Katashi said he couldn’t do it safely, so he gave me a legendary magic artifact sword — Ceris, the Song of Harmony — instead. Which was kind of weird, but okay, I’m not complaining.

Anyway, we survived the experience in the spire, albeit barely.

That strange swordsman, Keras, was conned...I mean, “convinced” into looking out for us for a while to earn points with Katashi and clear his name of some crimes that he probably did, in fact, commit. (What? Don’t look at me like that. Heresy is an actual crime, technically, even if what Keras was saying was true.)We headed back to the school and started working on our second half of the year.

I...admit I wasn’t doing very well for a while.

Not being able to speak took a real toll on me socially, and not being able to use magic was even worse.

Corin really looked out for me back then, and I’m grateful for it. He managed to arrange for a meeting with Sheridan Theas, an old friend (and probably lover) of Derek’s.

Sheridan is a follower of the visage Wydd. They’re also a Necromancer, which we were all pretty sure weren’t real until we met Sheridan.

Long story short, they performed some magic surgery on me to help improve my condition. I’ll save you the details, because frankly they’re gross, but I got some use of my voice and my attunement back.

I was still in rough shape. My ability to cast spells had fallen to below where I’d first started the year. I had to break almost all of my contracts, because I didn’t have enough mana to sustain them all. (Don’t worry, I kept my contracts with Vanniv and Seiryu, since they were too important to give up.)I was pretty far behind the curve at school for several weeks after that while I tried to recover. I relied heavily on my friends for help, as well as the items that Corin made me.

It was a difficult time, but I started recovering.

In the meantime, Marissa and Corin trained with Keras. Keras taught them both bits of his foreign style of swordplay and magic use, which gave them some new and unique techniques to try.

Patrick trained with Professor Meltlake, a legendary Elementalist, and learned powerful fire and lightning magic.

Keras also helped Corin make Patrick a magic sword — a replica of Dawnbringer, one of the Six Sacred Swords. He calls the replica “Bright Reflection”.

After that, we all prepped for our final exams. We passed, with some complications here and there, like Corin being kidnapped briefly by Elora Theas — Sheridan’s sister.

That situation escalated quickly, because Elora’s group had been infiltrated by a servant of the Tyrant in Gold, and when Corin pointed that out, they called for help. That help ended up being Saffron, one of the Tyrant’s own children.

And the Tyrant’s children are basically unstoppable forces of nature, so…that was bad.

Even Elora, an Emerald-level attuned, was at a disadvantage when she tried to fight Saffron. Corin managed to distract Saffron long enough for Elora to evacuate the two of them to Derek’s house, and then the three of them fought Saffron long enough for Keras to arrive and chase Saffron off.

That once again proved that Keras is ludicrously powerful and kind of terrifying. We really need to keep more of an eye on him, guys.

Anyway, we all got back and checked on Corin, and we were relieved that he had once again somehow survived fighting someone that was a hundred times more powerful than him. Apparently, being the weakest person in a battle like that has the benefit that the enemy doesn’t pay much attention to you.

After that, we all went to the winter ball. Which you’d think would be a nice reprieve from all sort of crazy death dealing nonsense, but nope! It was actually the worst.

Mizuchi, one of Seiryu’s daughters, showed up at the ball and accused some of the important people in attendance — members of the Council of Lords, Valia’s primary ruling body — of making a deal with the Tyrant in Gold. That is admittedly pretty bad if it’s true, but I don’t think it warrantedparalyzing the whole room with magic and starting to blast people out of existence.

Most of us students were paralyzed by the aforementioned magic, but Corin’s attunement allowed him to gradually start breaking us out by purifying our mana.

Meanwhile, a bunch of teachers and state officials had a huge battle with Mizuchi. Most of them were pretty ineffective, except for Teft — our dueling teacher, who I gained a little bit of respect for in that fight, and Professor Meltlake, who was powerful enough to force Mizuchi to change into something closer to her true form.

And, of course, Professor Conway, who died protecting us. Resh. I still hate just thinking about that. I’m sorry, Professor.

Marissa managed to save a downed Teft from being killed, but got herself badly hurt in the process. The rest of us weren’t anywhere near as effective as she was, but we did what we could.

Ultimately, Professor Vellum — Corin’s other, weirder mentor figure — managed to banish Mizuchi back to the Serpent Spire, but very nearly died due to the cost of the spell.

Corin managed to prevent Professor Vellum from dying, then got Sheridan to show up and help assist with the wounded.

A lot of people still died that night, but I’d like to think that by stepping in, maybe we helped save a few. I honestly don’t know if we made things better or worse. It was clear Mizuchi wasn’t aiming for the students in the first place, but I think she would have killed Teft and Meltlake if we hadn’t stopped her.

I try not to think about whether or not Professor Conway would have lived if we’d never gotten into the fight.

We spent some time recovering after that, but not for very long.

Corin was insistent on going to the Serpent Spire to figure out more about who was pulling the strings on all the attacks we’d been seeing. He put together a team. Unfortunately, I still wasn’t in any shape to go with them.

I ended up in there anyway, against my will.

You see, during the fight with Mizuchi, I’d tried to bind her — much like I do with other monsters regularly. I’d recovered a bit of my magic, but that led to some overconfidence on my part.

her.

I’d hoped to figure out how her magic worked and learn to use it againstI hadn’t realized that Mizuchi had the powers of a Summoner herself,and that our binding went both ways.

So, while Corin fought his way up the Spire with the others, Mizuchi summoned me to her.

And then she kidnapped me and used me as a tool to find the location of our brother, Tristan.

You see, Tristan had been the one sending messages to Corin through his magic book — Trials of Judgment — all along. Tristan was a key part of a conspiracy that had worked to break free of the control of the visages, and he’d been involved in an attack that had resulted in Tenjin, our local visage, being kidnapped.

Mizuchi had discovered Tristan’s role, but hadn’t had a way to find where he was hidden...until she got her hands on me, a family member of Tristan’s. My blood was linked to his, and could be used to track him any time he wasn’t hiding in a location that was protected from divination.

And, as it happened, Tristan was outside of that kind of safe area at the moment — because he was waiting for Corin to come and meet him. Oops.

All three siblings were finally reunited when Mizuchi brought me to Corin and Tristan’s location in the spire. I wish our meeting could have been under better circumstances, if it had to happen at all.

Mizuchi tried to kill all three of us, but she was still weaker than usual from being banished. And I had a new trick up my sleeve — when I’d taken that attunement primer, it hadn’t just broken my power. It’d changed it into something new; an Invoker attunement.

I still barely knew how to utilize my new capabilities, but I managed to invoke some of Vanniv’s power and hold Mizuchi at bay until Corin figured out a clever trick. He managed to mix some potions together in order to make a teleportation concoction, and Tristan and I managed to break through enough of Mizuchi’s barrier for Corin to splash her with it.

Mizuchi was teleported out of the area, and we all ran to hide in a safe spot of the tower Mizuchi couldn’t reach.

We were worried that Mizuchi might go after our companions, though, so we couldn’t stay long.

I did, however, manage one more feat during the fight: I made a contract with Researcher, an elemental librarian that Mizuchi had previously contracted. By making my own contract with Researcher, I managed to get Researcher to switch sides and help us in the battle. After that, I maintained my contract with Researcher, which allowed me to summon her to us in the future or invoke her powers.

Tristan told us a bit about what he’d really been up to — he was a member of one of three factions working against the visages, each with different motives. The Godslayers wanted to kill the visages outright. The Peacemakers still wanted the humans and visages to live together in harmony, but with more of a balanced relationship. And Tristan’s faction, the Ascension faction, wanted to level the playing field more permanently— by finding a way to get humanity visage-like powers.

I still don’t know what exactly I think about all that. We didn’t have enough time to discuss all the pros, cons, and politics in detail.

Tristan had been badly hurt in the fight. I think he might have lost an eye. But he couldn’t leave the spire with us; he had a mark on his body that would basically cause him to explode if he tried to leave the spire.

So, we had to leave him behind, so soon after seeing him again after many years apart.

I wasn’t quite as torn up about it as Corin was. Tristan had never been particularly kind to me. But he was family, and family is important.

And Tristan clearly meant a lot to Corin. Corin had this ideal in his mind that if he found Tristan, he could get our family back together. Don’t look down on him for that. It may have been a little naïve, but he worked reshing hard to try to make it a reality.

And once he learned that wasn’t possible, it just meant he had to make a new series of plans.

So, Corin grabbed the rest of us to take a train toward Caelford. Marissa and Patrick tagged along as usual. Keras accompanied us, but with the understanding that we’d probably part ways for a while after the train ride.

Corin also brought Cecily, a childhood friend of ours and fellow Enchanter who I didn’t entirely trust.

We had a lot of reasons for going to Caelford. For me, the most pressing was speaking to Ferras, the Visage of Creation, who I’d been led to believe could help treat my damaged attunement more thoroughly.

For Corin, it was more about finding new answers. More about his Arbiter attunement.

More about artificial attunements.

More about what Tristan’s faction was really up to, and why people were working to overthrow the visages in the first place.

Corin wasn’t going to let a little thing like the truth about Tristan demoralize him.

He had a new set of goals.

He had more knowledge, more power, and new friends. And most importantly?He has me, his sister.

And I’m never going to let us be apart again.

And with that, I’ll let Corin take over and pick up where he last left off.

