CHAPTER XVI – NEW OLD FRIENDS

Appearing outside of the tower was almost as surreal as stepping inside had been. It took me a moment just to steady myself and process our new locale — the anchor room for the nearby Soaring Wings facility. Immediately, one of their staff checked us over for injuries. Mara was a little beaten up from her fight with the tiger and got some brief medical attention, but we were largely in excellent shape.

Soon, we were on our way out and back into the world.

We formed a small circle to discuss things outside the building.

“I believe this is where we part ways.” Professor Meltlake still leaned on her cane as she talked to us, but perhaps a little less heavily than before we’d entered. Her expression seemed calmer, too.

More like the Meltlake of old.

“Are you…sure, Professor?” Patrick turned to her, his tone pleading. “You could come with us through the Arbiter’s Gate, too. I mean, assuming Corin is okay with it?”

“Sure, I’d be glad to have her along…assuming any of you can come with me. I’m not actually sure how that works.” I frowned, thinking back to my talk with Farren, but it seemed frustratingly vague.

“It should, but you’ll basically be in a waiting room until someone comes to address you,” Meltlake explained, “And I believe I’ve waited quite long enough for what I need to do.”

Patrick frowned. “You’re still going to do a second Judgment, then?”

Meltlake gave him a firm nod. “Yes. If anything, this experience has made that clearer. But worry not.” She lifted her cane and pointed it at him. “You still have far too much to learn for me to leave you behind.”

Patrick laughed. “Yeah, you still haven’t taught me that Mete—”

Meltlake raised her other finger to her lips. “Ssh. Let’s save that one for a surprise.”

“Of course!” He laughed again. Then, after a moment of pause, he stepped forward and hugged her. Meltlake froze for a moment, then pulled him in closer.

“You stay safe, Patrick.” She let out a sigh. “You too, Professor.”

With that, our group exchanged a few more goodbyes with our professor, then parted ways with her.

Good luck, I wished her in my mind as she approached the Gates of Judgment. But I don’t think you’ll need it. Not anymore.

A fire burned within her heart once again.

***Before our circle broke apart, Sera turned to glance around the area, making sure we weren’t observed. Then, she spun toward me. “Before we do anything else, I need your help.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Sure…? What’s this about?”

She closed her eyes tightly for a moment, opening and closing her hands in the air, then took a steadying breath. “Your Arbiter power boost. I need it. Now. As much as you can give me.”

I blinked. “Are you sure? You still haven’t hit your old mana level, and I thought that threshold was—”

“Time sensitive matter. Need to do this now. Wanted to do it immediately, but couldn’t risk Meltlake taking action.”

I wasn’t sure what to say to that. “Okay? Uh, if you’re sure. Turn around, it’s easier with direct contact.”

She turned around, pulling up her shirt slightly so I could see the mark on her back. Patrick turned away, looking mildly embarrassed.

I put my hand on Sera’s Invoker mark. “Last chance to—”

“Do it.” She hissed. “Before I have a chance to change my mind.”

I frowned, trying and failing to understand what could be so urgent. Then, with great care, I began to transfer mana from my hand into her Attunement.

“More. Quickly. As much as you can give me.” “Sera, what’s this—”

“You’ll see in a moment.”

I poured mana into her, draining most of my right hand’s power. “I’m going to estimate that you’re at twice your safe level now. I shouldn’t go over that.”

Sera pulled away. “It’ll be enough. It’ll have to be.” She adjusted her shirt, then activated her bracers, the first item I’d made her. They flooded the air with additional mana to be used for summoning, but…what was she doing with it?Seiryu? Summoning her would take tremendous mana, but she can’t do that outside of the spire, can she?The answer came a moment later. Sera took another breath, then spoke a simple phrase that created as many questions as it answered.

“True Summoning — Emery Verena, I summon you.”

There was a flash in the air around Sera, then the sound of something cracking. She staggered…and then a young woman was standing next to her, looking disoriented.

I stepped forward out of instinct, grabbing Sera before she could fall over.

At the same time, Mara gasped and moved. “Emery!” She threw herself at the sickly woman, pulling her tightly into a hug. “Emery, you’re here!”

“I…” Emery Verena melted into Mara’s hug. “Oh.”

“Sera,” Patrick’s voice was filled with concern and…perhaps a bit of uncharacteristic disapproval, “…What have you done?”

Sera steadied herself, giving me a grateful nod as she pulled away to stand on her own. “Exactly what it sounded like.” She raised a hand in a “hold on” gesture, then broke into a wracking cough.

“Sera…are you okay?”

Sera winced, rubbing at her neck. “I…will be. Give me a minute.” Her voice was ragged, the worst I’d heard it in months.

Mara finally separated from Emery, giving Sera a grateful look. “Thank you.”

Emery turned as well, giving Sera a curtsy. “You have my gratitude as well, of course, Miss Cadence.” She frowned, turning to examine her surroundings. “It’s true, then. I didn’t believe you when you first offered the contract, but this…this…that’s the Tiger Spire, isn’t it? That’s where we were?”

Something about Emery’s expression was heartbreaking, but not as much as the thought of what Sera might have just done. Without the mana watch, I couldn’t check to see if she’d just torn her attunement back apart, but from the scratchiness in her voice and the coughing……Well, that couldn’t be good. I hoped that whatever damage she might have caused wouldn’t be permanent. Perhaps she’d just reopened an old wound that would heal on its own.

“It is,” Mara smiled softly. “Wait. You…remember Sera? And do you…?”

“I remember you.” Emery smiled, lifting a hand to Mara’s cheek. “As if I could forget.”

“How is that possible?” Mara asked. “Aren’t you, you know…”

“A construct. A fake version of a woman long dead.” Emery Verena nodded. “Miss Cadence explained the situation to me the morning before you left. She said that with a contract, she could potentially summon me — the same version of me that you met — out of the spire…but only if she was fast enough to get to me before our area in the spire ‘reset’. If that happened, neither of us were sure what would occur.”

“Then…you…”

“She’s not a copy of the version you met, Mara,” Sera managed. “It was a True Summoning — I didn’t make another copy. I physically moved her. She’s the same one we all met in the tower.”

“Sera…” Patrick gave my sister a concerned look. “There could be consequences for this.”

“Don’t I know it.” Sera laughed, rubbing at her neck, and then broke into another cough.

Patrick winced. “Those…aren’t the sort of consequences that I meant.

Taking an original creature out of a spire…that’s…”

“Not generally permitted without special circumstances,” I finished for him. “Because you’re depleting the spire’s resources.”

“Summons that don’t even know they’re summons are something of a gray area.” Sera winced. “Normally, most summons are taught the conditions under which they’re allowed to be True Summoned, which go in the contract. But since Emery didn’t even know her true nature…we just sort of did our own thing.”

“And you could get in trouble for it.” Patrick shook his head.

“We’ll deal with that. For the moment,” I glanced around at the area, “we may want to head somewhere we won’t attract further attention.”

I got a series of nods in reply.

Given the situation, our next trip wasn’t to the Arbiter’s Gate, but to a hotel. After booking a couple rooms, we discussed our plans.

“Can you summon and unsummon Emery safely?” I asked Sera.

She nodded. “Yes, but it’s…a little more complicated for a True Summon. More like how Derek’s Soulblade summons work.”

I nodded in understanding. “Okay. Let’s take a few hours to rest here, then we can figure out what to do next.”

We took a few hours to bathe, change our clothes, and get some food. Sera’s voice had cleared up a bit by the end of that, but she was still clearly worse than before we’d entered the spire.

“Are you up for going with us to the Arbiter’s Gate?” I asked her. “Absolutely.” Sera nodded. “I can feel my mana coming back. It’s…notlike before.”

I exhaled a sigh of relief. “You took a tremendous risk there.”

She nodded. “Can’t let you be the only one making the crazy decisions. I… remember what Keras told us about the Spirit Gateway Crystal making copies of his friends? The spires are the same. They’re…basically making people, then killing them immediately when they’re done being used.”

“Why do something about Emery in specific? Isn’t the same thing true for everyone in that party, and the people on the Iron Redoubt, and…”

“Yes.” Sera nodded. “But I’m only one person, and not a particularly strong one. Not yet. Even one True Summoning was beyond what I could have done on my own, which is why I needed your help. Even then, it almost…” She winced, rubbing at her neck again. “My choices were simple enough. I could do nothing, or I could do something that might help in a small way. And given those choices, well, there isn’t really any choice at all, is there?”

“…No.” My shoulders slumped. “But you’ve reminded me about a much bigger problem, and now I feel…”

“Like you need to fix everything right now?” Sera gave me a pained look. “Look, Corin. You can’t always save everyone, and certainly not immediately. It’s not your responsibility to fix every perceived inequity in the world.”

“I know, I know, I just…” I shut my eyes. “I didn’t even think about saving Emery. Or anyone at that party. I was so wrapped up in the moment, I…”

“That’s normal. Those spires are dangerous. I just happened to have an opportunity to do something good, and I took it. You could maybe, I don’t know, feel proud of me instead of feeling bad about yourself?”

I winced. “I…am proud of you.”

She nodded. “Good. You should, because I’m amazing. Now, you need to forgive yourself for not doing the same thing, or doing more — because you can’t always be looking out for yourself, your peer group, and literally everyone else in the world at the same time.”

“It’s…gah. I know that, intellectually, but it’s hard.” I winced. “And it’s harder when I forget, and then remember. Because it’s so easy, Sera. It’s so easy to just…play along. To get caught up in the tides of what we’ve been taught and never question anything, never seek change. What happens if I just…lose track of things, and never address any of this?”

“Well, then. I suppose you’ll have to let everyone else in the world take a tiny bit of responsibility.”

I didn’t know what to say to that, so I just…kind of got quiet for a while.

Finally, Sera spoke again. “Even if you can’t trust everyone in the world, can you at least trust me a little?”

“I do, I just…I don’t think we always have the same priorities.”

“We don’t.” She nodded. “But as far as monster stuff like this goes? I’m not going to forget about it.”

“…Thanks. That helps a bit.” I nodded. “Sorry for making this about me.”

“Don’t worry, Corin. I’m very used to that by now.” She smiled. “But if you’d help to make it up to me and do something positive, be a good brother and make me some tea? My voice is killing me.”

“You got it.”

I made Sera some tea (poorly) and gave her some space. We took a few more hours to rest.

After that, Sera went and had a discussion with Mara and Emery without me, and then returned with Mara alone.

“She’s unsummoned,” Mara explained. “We’ll…have time to do things later. For now, the priority is going with you to the Arbiter’s Gate, and it wouldn’t be safe to take her in there or leave her alone here.”

I nodded in understanding. “You could stay here with her, you know.”

Mara shook her head. “Too much at stake. Emery and I will have time later.”

“Shall we get going, then?” Sera asked.

Throughout	it	all,	I	should	have	noticed	that	Patrick	was uncharacteristically silent.

***We headed to the gate as a group. The Arbiter’s Gate was ostensibly completely safe, but given the insanity we’d run into in the spire so far, no one was willing to assume that was reliable.

Beyond that, we didn’t know how long it was going to take to arrange a meeting. If it took more than a day or so, having multiple people to sleep in shifts inside would be a good idea.

We found the gate easily enough with some directions from the Soaring Wings. We got a couple funny looks for asking, but that wasn’t much of a surprise, given the scarcity of Arbiter attunements.

The entrance was much smaller than typical tower entrances: it was a single, strangely mundane-looking metal door.

Next to the door was a waist-height stone pedestal capped with a metal segment covered in runes. The center of that metal segment had an obvious slot on the top. There were no instructions anywhere, but it was clear enough that this was where I was supposed to put the disc.

Before doing anything else, I retrieved a notebook and wrote the runes down. Some of them appeared typical — detection runes designed to note the passage of an object into a slot in the top of the metal pillar, reinforcement runes to keep the item intact, that sort of thing. Something related to teleportation. Beyond that, I noted a few in a completely different style.

Divine runes, perhaps, like those used to craft the spire. Or maybe foreign ones, from another country?The incongruity bothered me a little, but I couldn’t worry about it too much. I wrote those extra runes down, too.

“Are you planning to draw pictures of the spire, too?” Sera asked. “Should I get you an easel?”

“Sorry, sorry.” I tucked my parchment away in the Jaden Box. “Okay, let’s do this.”

Finally, it’s time to get some answers.

I slipped the disc out of my bag. Next, I closed my eyes and concentrated, sending a hint of mana into the object. A single rune — identical to the Arbiter attunement on my hand — appeared in the center ofthe disc. Finally, with the disc activated, I reached forward to insert it into the slot.

There was a brief musical chime, then I heard a voice in my mind. [We’re sorry, the visage Ferras is currently unavailable. Please tryagain.]I blinked.

Then, I heard the sound of something shifting in the pedestal in front of me. A slot opened, and a disc rolled out, near-identical to the one I’d just used.

“Um.” I caught the disc as it fell out of the slot, turning it over in my hands. “Did everyone else just hear that?”

“Hear what?” Sera asked.

I explained to the group, then turned the disc over in my hands. It was a Petitioner’s Coin, but not the same one I had used — this one was older, scoured and worn. In spite of the coin’s age, the Arbiter symbol still glowed on its surface.

“So,” Sera’s shoulders slumped, “No Ferras.”

“No Ferras right at this moment.” I wasn’t great at body language, but even I could tell that she was upset. Meeting Ferras was her best chance of getting herself fully healed, after all. “We can come back later, maybe.”

“Do you think whatever happened will be resolved by the end of our trip? It seems unlikely to me.”

I shrugged. “Depends. Could be something huge, like what’s happening to Tenjin. Could mean she’s just super drunk.”

“Corin!” Patrick gave me a hard look.

“What? You know her reputation.” I shook my head. “Anyway…I’m sorry, Sera. I know this isn’t what you wanted, but it might not be as bad as it seems.”

“How so?” She asked.

“When one door is closed…” I turned the coin. “Another sometimes opens.”

Her eyes refocused on the coin. “Wait, you mean…”

“This coin belonged to a previous Arbiter. One who charged it with their own mana…and thus, left a trace of their spirit behind. It might be too old, but…let’s see if this works, shall we?” I held up the coin. “Spirit Tracking Analytical Arrow.”

Then, without fanfare, a gleaming arrow appeared in my sight.

I let out a hoot, slipped the coin in my bag, and pointed. “Ladies and gentlemen, we have a trail.”

***Following the arrow wasn’t difficult — it moved when I moved, and the destination wasn’t far. It led us to a house about a half a mile to the north. I had to wonder if Constantine had been living in close proximity to the spire this whole time, much like Derek had, in order to have easy access to the gate and the spire’s mana supply.

It was, of course, possible that a different Arbiter had used this coin… but the odds were in Constantine’s favor. He had worked in this area for years, whereas few of the other Arbiters that I’d heard about had spent any significant time in this area.

I’d find out soon enough…if I could get over the jitters I was feeling as I paused near the door.

“Whatcha waiting for?” Mara asked.

“I’m…figuring out what to say,” I said. That was almost true. I’d played this conversation in my head a hundred times. It wasn’t quite as bad as showing up at someone’s door to say something like “I’m your secret child”, but it wasn’t going to be easy, either. “I’m another Arbiter and I’ve been stalking you for weeks” wasn’t exactly a good conversation starter, but I wasn’t good at deciding what would be.

“I’ll handle any fumbles,” Sera offered, her voice still rough, but slightly better than earlier.

“Thanks.” I shook my head, then marched forward, knocking on the door.

A barrier flickered into place the moment my hand touched the surface.

The barrier flickered just slightly, then I heard a chime from inside.

I took a step back, wondering if I should knock again, but a moment later, I heard the sound of tumblers shifting and locks clicking open.

Then, finally, the house’s door opened.

A woman stood in the doorway wearing a curious expression and a sword sheathed at her hip. She looked to be in her mid-twenties, with her crimson hair held up in a single neat bun. She wore practical traveling garb and thick glasses. As she stepped forward, I saw leaves rustling in the airaround her. “Corin Cadence, I presume? I’ve been looking forward to making your acquaintance for some time now.”

I blinked. “Yes. That’s me. Uh…is this Warren Constantine’s residence?”

“Not precisely, but you’ve come to the right place.” She reached up and adjusted her glasses, then gave me a bright smile. “My name is Lydia. I believe we have a great deal to discuss.”

