CHAPTER X – CROWN OF FIRE

A voice echoed throughout the newly-sealed chamber. [Player 1’s Turn.]

“Excellent.”	Sera	grinned.	“Everyone,	stay	still	a	moment.”	She gestured to the square next to her, taking a breath. “Vanniv, I summon you.”

Something clicked in my head the moment that Sera called Vanniv onto the board. The reason why she’d been so confident about winning with just Patrick and herself — it wasn’t about her own abilities. Not exactly.

Vanniv was, in effect, another entire Elementalist. His magic was near- identical to Patrick’s, both outside of Crowns and in terms of the mechanics of the game itself. That meant that we now had access to two different people with the types of abilities that Elementalists were famous for: fire and lightning based attacks.

I wasn’t quite certain what her full plan was. Chain Lightning seemed like the most valuable move against a crowd of the size we were dealing with, but Carnelian-level Elementalist and karvensi units wouldn’t have that ability. Inferno would be available, which could blast up to four squares with fire, but that didn’t seem to be fast enough to obliterate entire crowds. Beyond that, they’d have powerful single-target Fire Bolt and Lightning Bolt spells, the latter of which might be useful against the barghensi. Finally, they had a simple Wall of Fire spell to block off up to three squares to prevent movement and attacks through those squares.

All that was useful, but there were simply too many enemies. Even if we could obliterate as many as four units in a round with perfect placement of Inferno spells, I couldn’t see how she was planning to beat them without getting us pelted with arrows. And I, for one, did not like the idea of being pincushioned by skeletal archers.

Vanniv appeared where she’d indicated, immediately turning in a circle to examine his surroundings. “Oh! Oh! Are we in a spire? It’s just like home!”

“Yes, the Tiger Spire. We’re playing Crowns. You remember the rules, of course?” Sera asked.

“Please, Sera. I couldn’t possibly forget after playing with you.” He gave her an exaggerated wink. “Now, since I’ve just been summoned…Isuppose I should stand here and look dashing and adorable?”

“Quite right. No movements on your first turn, sadly. Which we’ll be ending in just a moment.”

“So soon?” I asked. “Most of us haven’t moved. You don’t want us to at least get a little closer?”

“Nope. We want as much information as possible before they get near us. Assuming normal mechanics, it’s going to take a minimum of two turns for them to get in archery and spell range. More, if we move backward or take some other steps. Let’s see what they do. Everyone good with that?”

We agreed.

Sera said, “End turn.” [Player 2’s Turn.]A skeleton walked forward for exactly three squares, then stopped.

Then the next one did. Then the next.

It was kind of eerie. Was something giving them telepathic instructions?The same voice as the announcer, maybe?The skeletal archers moved next – also exactly three squares. Then, the barghensi was last, moving only two squares.

Standard unit movement rates. I nodded to myself. Given that the archers aren’t loosing arrows at us, they may have standard range on shooting at us, too.

[Player 1’s Turn.]“Perfect.” Sera smiled. “Patrick, lay down a Wall of Fire between E5 and C5.”

Patrick blinked. “Uh, sure. But they won’t get that close this turn.” “Right. It’s not to stop them from walking. It’s to block line of sight forthe archers, which have a range of four squares. Without obstruction, they could fire at Mara and Corin next turn.”

“That wall won’t stop them from shooting me.” I noted.

“Yes, yes. Vanniv will be putting up a second Wall of Fire, between F5 and H5. That will block the archers from shooting you.”

I processed that. “That’s…oh. You’re just going to wall us off entirely, aren’t you?”

“Precisely. A little mana intensive, but they should never get in a shot.” “We	can’t	attack	through	the	walls,	either,	though.	So…you’reexpecting the skeletons to walk right through the walls?”

Sera nodded. “Indeed I am.”

I sighed. “Okay. And if they don’t?”

“Then we’ll unload on them as soon as the walls fall and run.” That sounded a little risky for my tastes, but if it worked… Patrick and Vanniv put up their Walls of Fire.

“End Turn.” Sera declared. [Player 2’s Turn.]The enemy skeletons and barghensi moved up, just as expected. I tensed, but no shots were fired.

[Player 1’s Turn.]“Patrick, move to B2. Then, Wall of Fire on A5 and B5.”

“Got it!” Patrick moved and cast his wall, blocking off the last couple skeletons on that side of the board.

“Vanniv…” Sera started.

“Fire wall from H2 to H4?” He gestured at the squares expectantly. ‘Quite right. It seems you’ve been paying attention during our gamesafter all.”

“Anything to please you, mistress.” He gave a little mock bow, then waved a hand. A brilliant wall of flame moved to block off most of one of our remaining sides, leaving only a single square gap — and that gap was too far away for anyone to reach in one round.

“Aaaaand…End Turn.”

[Player 2’s Turn.]I felt my shoulders tighten. I did not like the idea of waiting with skeletons this close to us, especially as obscured as they were by flames.

But those skeletons were a lot less intimidating the moment they began to step into the fire.

[Player 2’s Skeleton has been eliminated.]That message repeated as more than half the skeletons walked into the fire wall.

Then, to my surprise, another series of actions that were even less explicable happened.

[Player 2’s Skeleton Archer has been eliminated.]The archers were walking into the walls, too. There was…no reason for that. They could have simply waited on the other side of the fire walls for the duration to expire in a couple more turns.

Either the other player was very, very bad at Crowns, or simply very forgiving.

I counted myself grateful either way, although I quickly reminded myself that this was just the first room of the first floor of the spire. If we had run into a similar puzzle on a later floor it could have been much messier.

And we weren’t done. Not quite yet, at least. [Player 1’s Turn.]“Okay. First set of walls go down after the next enemy turn,” Sera noted. “At that point, we will have a brief window of vulnerability, depending on where their archers and the barghensi end up. Current plan is to bombard then when the walls go down and end the game, but if there are too many, we’ll refresh the walls and fall back instead. Patrick, back to your starting position.”

“Got it!” “End turn.”

This was…absurdly nerve wracking for something where I had literally nothing to do. I gripped the hilt of Selys-Lyann tightly, but didn’t draw it. I couldn’t even know if I could use it safely in the match.

[Player 2’s Turn.]A series of messages sounded as skeletons continued to advance toward us, burning and vanishing inside the walls.

[Player 2’s Skeleton has been eliminated.] [Player 2’s Skeleton Archer has been eliminated.]And then… [Player 1’s Turn.]The first walls of fire dropped, just as planned. They’d done their job, though — only two archers, one normal skeleton, and the bhargensi remained.

“Okay, looks good.” Sera nodded. “Patrick, move to F4.” “That close?” I asked.

“It’s fine.” Sera waved a hand dismissively. “We’ve got them this turn.”

Patrick inched his way to the square, only about ten feet from the barghensi — a much more dangerous opponent than the mere skeletons. He looked nervous, but held himself tall regardless. “Uh…now what?”

“Cast Inferno on G6 and H6.”

“Oh! Got it.” Patrick waved a hand, conjuring a conflagration that enveloped the two designated squares — obliterating one of the two remaining skeletal archers and burning the barghensi. The latter was damaged, but remained in the game.

“Vanniv, move to G4, then Inferno the remaining skeleton and archer.” “Gladly!” He stepped up, cast an inferno on I5 and I6, and obliteratedthe two units there.

Then only the barghensi remained.

“Mara, it’s time for your ultimate technique.”

Mara sauntered up to G5, right in front of the barghensi, and pulled back her arm. A bright wave of power flashed over her arm, then she jumped into the air and….

“Star Descends from Sky!”

She punched the barghensi out of existence. [All of Player 2’s Units have been eliminated.] [Player 1 has won the game.]There was a brief musical chime, then then the voice sounded again. [You have been awarded a bonus for winning without losing any units.] [You have been awarded a bonus for winning without taking damage.]A pair of keys appeared in the center of the room — one blue and one purple. The latter was gigantic and, perhaps more importantly, had a head shaped like a skull.

The key to the door near the entrance, I realized. We could go back and head to the next floor right away.

Sera conjured a jet of wind to bring them to her, smiling. “Not a bad start.”

***We walked back to the door to the previous room. My nerves were still on fire. There had been no harm done to any of us, but that…almost made things worse. I didn’t like standing around with nothing to do.

I’m going to have to ask to avoid more challenges like that…or find a way to calm myself down.

Sera re-opened the door, revealing a nervous-looking Meltlake waiting for us.

The professor let out a sigh of relief when she saw our group intact. “How did it go?”

Sera quickly summed up the game.

“You did very well,” Meltlake said simply. It was tame, as far as praise went, but Sera seemed to devour it.

“T…thank you, Professor.” Was she more nervous than she’d been letting on? I supposed that it made sense, given how much was riding on her strategies.

I didn’t say anything. It probably would have just embarrassed her. “Now, shall we choose where to go next?” Sera asked. “Oh, and Vanniv,thank you for the help. You were instrumental to our success.”

“I am always pleased to be of use to you.” He puffed himself up a bit, looking pleased. “Shall I continue to conquer this spire in your name?”

Sera let out a little snort. “I think we’ll take it from here for the moment, thank you. Need to conserve mana.”

“If you insist.” A hint of disappointment flashed across his face, but he didn’t let it show for long. “Let me know when you’re in need of me again.”

“I will. Vanniv, return.” She extended a hand in a magnanimous and unnecessary gesture, then Vanniv vanished into nothingness. I’d seen the effect dozens of times now, but I still found the idea of unsummoning a person…unsettling.

I tried to focus on the situation around us instead of my broader ideas about summoning ethics. This room had three other doors, but none of them looked to be any more locked than the previous ones had been.

“We could backtrack and head straight to the next floor,” I offered. “That’s the safest route.”

“Yeah, but then I’d probably lose my chance to try out this key.” Sera waggled the non-skull shaped key. “This is valuable practice, too. I say we hit a few more rooms before we go back.”

We discussed briefly, ultimately settling on taking a look at the other room options before deciding if we wanted to backtrack or not.

“I’ll go open the next one!” Patrick headed toward the door on the left side of the room. Mara silently moved right along with him, ready to take action if anything dangerous happened.

Patrick opened the first door, revealing a titanic room. I couldn’t even see the ceiling from my angle, but I could see some of the contents of the chamber. There were four massive wooden pillars holding up some sort of structure, as well as several peculiar figures.

One was a gigantic golem of some kind, wearing a long dress and with strangely smooth painted skin. It was lying on its side, inert.

Another was what looked like a twenty-foot tall fuzzy monstrosity resting up against a nearby wall, with a single shoulder torn out of position and exposing…stuffing?I blinked, noting two other similar figures on the ground, and sensing a pattern. “Are…those…children’s dolls?”

“Yeah, sure, if the kids are about the size of a god beast.” Sera mused. “…Which I suppose is possible.”

“Step back.” Meltlake instructed in a no-nonsense tone.

We stepped away from the room. Just before the door closed in our absence, I saw something moving down from the side of the structure. When it struck the ground, I felt our entire room shake.

“Insights, professor?” Sera asked as we shifted away from the door. “We should avoid that room.” The professor explained.

I stared back at the closed door. “Yeah, let’s stay as far from possible from the giant baby.”

Sera nodded. “I do try to keep my distance from you, brother, but it’s difficult when we’re in such confined spaces in the spire. Oh, you meant the giant baby in there.”

I rolled my eyes. “That was a weak jab, even by the standards of your usual ones.”

“Well, not all of my abilities can be quite as prodigious as my Crowns- playing. Shall we check the next room?”

We moved to the door that was directly across from where we’d entered. Once again, Patrick opened it.

Inside was a small room with a single blue treasure chest in the center. The box itself was huge; nearly neck-height and about six feet wide. Therewere absolutely no monsters or obvious traps. Somehow, I think that terrified me even more than the giant baby room.

No, I’m lying. The giant baby room was still worse. Still, treasure on its own was incredibly suspicious. There were no other obvious doors within that room, so it seemed like that particular path terminated there.

“Same color as her key,” Mara noted. “The non-skully one, that is.

Maybe it’s our bonus prize?”

“Could be. Seems a bit…obvious, though.” Sera turned to Meltlake. “Odds that’s just a box?”

“Not quite zero, but it’s probably not a traditional mimic, either. Too obvious. It’s possible it’s a trap, but only for people who don’t have the proper key…which you might actually have earned.”

Sera frowned. “I suppose that’s possible. I was thinking of the skull key as the bonus key, but if that was the default and my key was the extra one… hm. Might be worth just levitating the key over to the box from here?”

“I think that would be largely safe,” Meltlake replied, “But perhaps it would be wise to check the other room first.”

There were a series of nods at that. We headed to the final new door, with Patrick opening it as usual.

A monster hurled itself through the door the moment that Patrick opened it.

The beast was something like a tiger, but with large, bird-like wings and huge, knife-like claws extending from its fingers. I felt an instant of panic as it lunged for Patrick. My hand went to my sword, but I wasn’t fast enough to do anything.

As it turned out, I didn’t have to. Patrick swept his right hand across his body and a gust of wind followed his gesture, blasting the winged tiger across the room and into a nearby wall. It didn’t impact particularly hard, but it still looked dazed.

Patrick splayed his hands out to the sides, staring at the creature with a hard look. “Easy, there, friend. We’re not here to hurt you.”

The beast landed on the ground and raised its head, its muscles tensing as if preparing to leap. It let out a low growl, then licked its lips, turned its head to scan the people present, and took a step back toward the wall.

I stayed my sword hand for the moment. If Patrick wanted to talk, I’d let him.

Mara surged across the room, landing in front of Patrick. Her aura blade was gone; she’d dismissed it, presumably deliberately. That didn’t stop her from taking a defensive posture, though.

“Wall.” Sera waved toward the doorway. A wall of ice manifested in the door, freezing the entrance to the next chamber shut a moment before a second monster slammed into it. Through the ice, I couldn’t quite make it out, but it looked more like some kind of boar.

Good catch, I noted mentally. I’d been so distracted by the first monster that a second would have caught me off guard.

Meltlake watched the doorway warily, bracing her arms on top of her long cane. Based on the way her shoulders were set, I suspected she was having difficulty restraining herself from attacking. I appreciated that she was giving us a chance to handle things without her intervention.

Sera took a few steps closer as the winged tiger began to back away from our group, seemingly searching for a way out. “Easy, there. We’re not here to hurt you. I’m a Summoner. Can you talk?”

The creature turned its head toward Sera, growling. “Summoner. I have no business with you.”

I blinked, briefly startled. I knew about plenty of smart animal-like monsters — pegasai, unicorns, gryphons, all that — but most of them didn’t talk. I didn’t quite recognize this one, but it did seem similar to another monster I was more familiar with.

Fortunately, I wasn’t the monster expert. Without missing a beat, Mara stepped forward. “I’ve got a riddle for you, if you’d like.”

The creature immediately swiveled toward Mara, the muscles in its back tensing as if it wanted to leap, but instead, it simply narrowed its eyes. “You believe yourself worthy to feed me?”

“I’ll wager I’ve got one you haven’t ‘eard before. Don’t know if it’ll stump ya, but I think you’ll enjoy it regardless.”

“Hmpf.” The monster briefly tensed again, seeming to evaluate something, then shifted into a sitting position. And, in a much more conventionally cat-like fashion, reached up to lick one of its own knife-like claws. “Very well, then. Amuse me, if you would. But I will require more than one riddle if you wish to be permitted to stay.”

“Of course, great one.” Mara bowed her head. “Will you permit us a few moments to discuss the best riddles to offer you, then?”

“Pah. You offer food and then withdraw it?”

“No, no. Merely wanted to give you the best offerings, is all. I’ll give you one now, then talk to my friends while you think about it?”

“I can give you a few moments.”

While they talked, Sera was inching her way over toward me. She leaned over to whisper. “Tiger-sphinx. Very smart. Very temperamental.”

“It eats riddles instead of giving them out like a traditional sphinx?” I asked.

“It does both. If you can both stump it and defeat its own riddles, it will offer you something. In this case, probably clues for the rest of the area.”

Mara came over to us. “Any of you have somethin’ you feel like startin’ us off with?”

I shook my head. “I can come up with something, but you’ll need to give me a bit. I’m no riddle expert.”

“Same.” Sera frowned. “I’ve got a few options, do you want to discuss—”

“It has been a few moments. You may tell me a riddle now.” The tigersphinx made a “come hither” gesture with a paw.

Apparently the “few moments” were very literal. That wasn’t much time to talk.

Mara took on a thoughtful expression, then walked back over to present her first offering. “Right, right. Here you go. I run, but cannot walk. I sing, but cannot talk. I have no arms, but I have hands—”

The tiger-sphinx groaned. “A clock. A better effort than some, but if you wish to feed me, you must do better.”

Mara just smiled. “Well, I s’pose it’d be your turn, then, now wouldn’tit?”

“Hmpf. You have not yet warranted my own questioning. Give me atrue meal before you seek scraps of your own.”

“Of course, beggin’ your forgiveness. Just a moment, then, while we have a little chat, yeah?” Mara bowed her head, then slowly backed away, nudging Patrick to do the same. She never took her eyes off the tiger- sphinx. Taking that as a strategy, I tried to do the same as I moved closer to Patrick and Mara. Eventually, we were all facing toward the sphinx, but standing close to each other and toward the opposite side of the room.

“Can we really discuss this without the tiger-sphinx just overhearing us?” I asked my friends quietly.

“No,” the tiger-sphinx replied to my whispered question. “Not if I wish to listen. I will nap now. We will begin when I wake.”

The cat unceremoniously laid down on the ground, closing its eyes. I blinked at the sudden change, then glanced to my companions. “Are they really…?”

“Sleeping?” Sera narrowed her eyes. “I think so. Or, at least, we should play along either way. Come on. Riddles. Mara, I take it you gave an easy one as bait?”

“Right you are, Miss Cadence. I have some better ones. We’ll each want to have one good one — we all need to make a personal exchange unless we want to be considered ‘prey’.”

“How much of a concern would that be?” I asked. “How strong are these things?”

Mara shrugged. “Probably not that dangerous to us, if I’m bein’ honest. They can get powerful, but at this floor? Not a concern. It’s more about just bein’ nice and gettin’ some clues.”

“Sounds good.” I nodded to her, thinking. Riddles weren’t really my strength, but I did know a few. “Do we all have to stump them?”

“Him, I think. And no, I think only one of us will need to. The rest of us just have to be at least mildly entertaining. And we do want to answer his riddles correctly, either alone or as a team.”

We spent the next few minutes discussing options, playing riddles against each other, until we made some choices. I kept casting glances toward the ice wall to see if the other monster would break through, but it seemed to get bored and stop trying after a minute or so.

Then, after just a few minutes of riddle discussion, the tiger-sphinx opened its jaws in a surprisingly humanlike yawn, blinked, and turned toward us. “You may feed me now.”

“I’ll go first.” Sera stepped up. “Ready?”

“Yes, yes.” The sphinx yawned again. “Go ahead, make your effort.”

Sera bowed and began. “I have words, but no voice. I have no eyes and ears, but I spread wisdom to each that holds me.”

The creature paused for just a moment, closing its eyes. “A book.

Somewhat pedestrian, but an appropriate choice. I will permit it.”

“Then, will you offer us a riddle in return?” Sera asked.

Without preamble, the tiger-sphinx began. “Harder to catch than it is to hold, I cannot be seen unless it is cold.”

Sera smiled. “Thank you for giving us an easy one to begin with. The answer is breath.”

“Very good. It seems your answering abilities exceed your questions.

Who is next?”

I stepped up to offer one of my own. “I am the beginning of the end and the end of time and space. I stand within creation, but I surround every place.”

“A slight variation on a classic. The answer is the letter ‘e’. I care little for linguistic riddles such as this, but I will reply regardless.” The sphinx paused for a moment, then began his own query. “It is dark and cold, and your window is broken, allowing in a chill wind. You stand alone in your home, bereft of magic. You have a candle, an oil lamp with minimal oil, and a wood-burning stove. You have but a single match. What do you light first?”

I frowned, thinking.

Well, with the candle, I could easily light the others…except for the wind. That might put it out right away. If I could get the lamp lit, I could light the others, if the oil lasts. Lighting the stove would provide the most heat, but I feel like it would be the hardest to…Oh.

It's a trick question.

I sighed. “It’s the match, isn’t it? You have to light the match before you light the others.”

“Well-done.” The tiger-sphinx nodded. “Who shall go next?”

Mara stepped up, and I hoped she had a harder one. We were rapidly running out of chances to stump him, and I wasn’t sure if Meltlake was going to intervene if Mara and Patrick failed. “Air is my chariot and water my guard. Earth is my mother, but by fire I’m scarred.”

“Ah, I always appreciate an elemental challenge. Yours is quite broad, however. A leaf would be the most obvious, given the line about air, but perhaps a seed or sapling could also work.” He didn’t wait for Mara to acknowledge that his answer was correct, he simply launched into his own riddle in reply. “Perhaps you would appreciate something similar? I amborn of the earth, but my bones are frail. I am molded by flame, but bear no heat. From wind I protect, and water shines beautifully against me in the light.”

“Think I know that one. Glass, yeah?”

The sphinx nodded. “That is the traditional answer, yes. Certain gems or crystals are valid answers as well. Anyone else?”

Patrick stepped a little closer. “Uh, hi, Mr. Tiger-Sphinx. Do you have a name?”

The tiger-sphinx stared at Patrick. “I…what an interesting riddle. I do not believe I’ve been asked that before. Allow me to contemplate.”

That was definitely not intended to be a riddle. Patrick, to his credit, played along marvelously and puffed up his chest contemptuously.

“As with most spire creatures, I am a copy. I know the name assigned to my original self, but is that my name? Dare I to call it my own? It is a perplexing question, one with no simple answer.” The tiger-sphinx nodded to Patrick. “Well done, young one. You have succeeded, and I owe you a reward. You may ask me a single question, and if it is within my ability, I will answer.”

I’m going to be honest, I thought we were going to have to go with my backup plan of “summon Researcher to out-riddle the sphinx”.

Who would have thought that a little common courtesy might accidentally solve our problem?“I would like a moment to confer with my friends.” Patrick was wise enough to not phrase his request as a question.

“Of course, go ahead. I will nap.” The tiger-sphinx lowered his great bulk back to the floor and closed his eyes.

“I can’t believe that worked.” Mara nudged Patrick. “Good thinking, there!”

“I, uh, thanks Mara. But it was kind of an accident.”

Sera shook a finger at him. “Solved is solved, Patrick, deliberately or otherwise. Give yourself some credit.”

“I…uh, thanks.” Patrick blushed a little, looking away. “So…what should we ask him?”

Sera beckoned Meltlake over to join in the conversation. We huddled up to discuss ideas.

“If there’s any secret treasure on this floor, he probably knows about it,” Patrick suggested. “Might be worth asking. Could be something valuable.”

“Secret passages, too,” Mara offered. “Might be willin’ to tell us where that weird portal goes. If it skips a few floors, could save us a lot of time ‘n trouble.”

I nodded at that. As much as I liked looting the spires, we had a specific goal, and expediting that goal was probably wise if it was possible. On the other hand, if the portal was useless, we’d just wasted a question. “We need to weigh the value of the information, the likelihood he has the information, his willingness to share, and the utility of any possible responses.”

Sera rolled her eyes. “As pretentiously as he phrased that, Corin is right. Something more open-ended might be better, like treasure located anywhere in the spire, rather than on this floor.”

Patrick grimaced. “But too broad could get us, ‘oh, yeah, there’s this crazy sword up on the fiftieth floor. This guy named Keras is carrying it.’ He’s not going to give us a trick answer like some kind of elemental or spirit might, but if we ask something too open-ended, the answer may not be useful.”

“Fair.” Sera nodded. “Wait, is Keras that high up in the spire now?” Patrick laughed. “No idea! He was slowing down a lot for us, though.

Admittedly, some problems couldn’t exactly be brute forced. ‘Survive until sundown’ or whatever. Doesn’t matter how strong you are for that sort of thing, gotta spend the time.”

I briefly pictured Keras punching out the sun to try to meet that requirement faster, but didn’t comment on the mental image.

“We’re gettin’ a bit sidetracked here,” Mara pointed out. “Professor, any advice?”

Meltlake shrugged a shoulder. “Doubt the sphinx has anything particularly impressive to offer. We’re on the first floor. Don’t overthink it. Could ask for the simplest method to solve whatever is in the skull room, for example. Miss Callahan’s suggestion about the portal isn’t a bad one. Yes, it’s a waste if the portal doesn’t go somewhere we want, but if it does, it saves enough time that knowing it has considerable value.

I couldn’t disagree with that. “Fair. We just have to weigh a question with a guaranteed useful answer against things like that. And honestly, I don’t know if any guaranteed answer is going to be useful at all.”

“Actually, if we’re talking about gambling on something that may not have a useful answer, I might have something more valuable than the portal to ask about…but only for me, personally.” Sera frowned. “Would you all be willing to give me the question as my split of the treasure for this floor?” “Uh, sure, Sera.” Patrick frowned. “I don’t think we really need anykind of formal treasure splitting rules in general. We’re all friends here.”

I frowned, thinking back to my conversation with Sera about my stricter definitions of “friends”. I certainly didn’t consider Professor Meltlake a friend, but I supposed Patrick probably did. She was more of an acquaintance to me, but one that I looked at positively. And she clearly didn’t care much about the sphinx’s question, so… “I’m fine with that.”

The others quickly agreed as well, then Sera went to ask her question. “Honored tiger-sphinx, I have my question for you.”

The sphinx opened his eyes, blinking and stretching in a surprisingly human-like yawn. “Hm? Question? Oh, right. Yes, go ahead, ask.”

Here it goes. I had a pretty good idea of what she was about to ask, but the phrasing was going to be relevant.

“What is the easiest way I could safely contact Byakko, the God Tiger, to arrange for a summoning contract without climbing any higher than the fifth floor and without requiring the help of anyone outside of my present climbing group?”

The sphinx blinked at her. “…What? Really? You do know that you’re less than an insect to Byakko, right? And that he’ll probably just, say, eat your face?”

Sera smirked. “I do have a delicious face, but I’m reasonably confident that he’ll choose to talk — if, of course, I can approach him in the right way. And I did ask for a safe method.”

“You did, you did.” The sphinx growled, but not in an aggressive way. It sounded more like he was thinking, maybe. “There is no safe way to speak to a god beast.”

“I know, but—”

“Cease speaking, I will answer your question to the best of my ability.” The sphinx took a breath. “Your conditions are too restrictive for me to give you the type of answer you truly wish, however…there is one method that technically meets your criteria.”

“Oh?” She raised an eyebrow. “And that is?”

“Take a second Judgment.” The sphinx closed his eyes. “That would not technically require external help or going higher than the fifth floor.”

“And this would…be a reliable way to find Byakko?” Sera asked, uncertain.

“No. But as a Summoner, there is a high likelihood that Byakko would appear in your Judgment in some form.” He winced. “Speaking of a Judgment is forbidden knowledge. For this transgression, I must leave you now. I bid you luck in your journey, and thank you for the meal.”

With that, the tiger-sphinx lowered his head. “Wait! Could we discuss a co—”

The sphinx vanished.

“….And he’s gone.” Sera sighed. “Oh well. It’s not like I needed another mental mana focused summon.” She turned to the rest of us. “Thank you all for permitting my question. I know it was selfish, but…”

“No, it was amazing!” Patrick raised a fist encouragingly. “You’re really set on getting the most dangerous contracts possible, aren’t you?”

“Yes,” Sera smiled. “I most certainly am.”

***We did a quick check on the room that the tiger-sphinx had come from, removing the wall of ice. The boar-monster charged us again, but Mara grabbed it by its gigantic horns, flipped it over her head, and slammed it into the ground so hard that I heard something crack. Then, a moment later, it vanished and left a tiny crystal behind in its absence.

“Huh.” I reached down and picked it up. “Class 1 Gray Mana Crystal.

Not bad.” I tossed it to Mara and she deftly caught and pocketed it.

The room itself had three more monsters in it, all variations on ordinary animals that had slight magical modifications. A bird with metallic feathers. A wolf-like creature with paws of ice. A gigantic metal bee.

A hail of offensive spells from our group obliterated them before they could get anywhere near us. Our group lacked a few things, but ranged offensive magic was not one of them. Between Sera, Patrick, and me, we had all the basic elements covered — and these were some of the weakest monsters available.

Patrick and Sera each claimed a mana core. I took the remains of the mechanical bee.

Beyond the bee (heh), the chamber didn’t have much of interest. There were two more doors, but we didn’t bother checking them. We had the key to the spire guardian room and didn’t feel like it was necessary to go any further.

We did, however, have one last thing to check before we made our way to the next floor. We went back to the Crowns room, then reopened the door to the giant treasure chest room. We stood in the doorway for a little while, just scanning the room for any obvious signs of traps.

“We’re being too paranoid.” Sera retrieved the key from her bag. “I think Keras’ tragic past with mimics is getting to us. Even if that thing is trapped, we can handle it. Let’s do this thing.”

I drew Selys-Lyann, just in case. Patrick already had Bright Reflection out. Mara just took a combat stance.

Behind us, Meltlake just looked a little amused.

“Levitate.” The key floated out of Sera’s hand and into the lock in the front of the chest. With a twist of her wrist, she manipulated the floating key to turn. There was a click, then the key vanished.

“So far, so good.” Sera frowned. “Was hoping the box lid would just pop off once it was unlocked, though. And I can’t levitate the lid from here. Corin, think you can hit the lid at the right angle to open it with a transference burst?”

“Depends. The weight of the lid would influence how much force I have to use. Let’s see, assuming it’s a wooden chest that’s a couple inches thick on each side…it’s about eighteen feet away…” I knelt down, angling my hand and gathering transference mana.

One…two…good.

I released the burst of mana. It hit so hard that the lid did flip open, but also slammed back shut again. The whole box slid back a few inches.

“Too hard, huh? Okay. One more.” My second blast got it open properly.

It was tough to see the contents of the box from the doorway, since it was so abnormally tall. To accomplish this without going inside, Sera levitated herself up a few feet, then looked downward at an angle. “Huh. Just a sack inside. Much smaller than the box itself. Nothing else I can see in there.”

“False bottom with more treasure, maybe?” I suggested.

“Very plausible.” Sera paused, contemplating. “I hate to say it, but I don’t think we can get the bag or check the bottom without going in. Any volunteers?”

No one volunteered. Not even Mara. Apparently, even her usual bravery was tempered by Keras’ tales of treasure box horrors.

Patrick looked like he was about to very hesitantly step forward when Sera spoke again. “Vanniv, I summon you.”

Vanniv appeared with a bright grin. “Ah, I knew you’d need me!”

“We most certainly do.” She gestured to the box. “We need the bag.

We’re concerned the box is trapped. Can you check for us?” “But of course! A trivial thing.”

He bowed and took one step into the room. The door slammed shut.

What followed was a cacophony of thunks, shinks, and something that sounded like a gigantic circular saw. I took an instinctive step away from the closed door, eyes widening.

Mara paled. “Should we…uh…maybe…”

“No.” Sera raised a hand in a warding gesture. “Just wait.”

We waited. More sounds. Thunk. Crack. The sound of a muffled voice. Then finally, after a tense minute, the door reopened.

Vanniv stood in the doorway. Or, what was left of him, anyway. His shirt had been obliterated. Half of his hair was gone — hair that, I’ll remind you, was made of stone. His skin was broken in several places. There was no obvious blood, but some kind of sticky blue substance — liquid mana — was leaking from the cracks. He was dragging one leg behind him and standing at an awkward angle. He half-lifted the sack, shoving it at Sera.

She hesitantly accepted it. “Vanniv…are you…”

“I’m going to go now.” Vanniv shuddered. “Never again. Never again.”

Then he vanished without so much as a “Vanniv I dismiss you”. I didn’t even know he could dismiss himself.

We stared at the room in growing horror. Aside from the bag being missing from the box and a trail of blue on the floor, there was absolutely no visible change.

“…Are we still checking the box for a false bottom?” Patrick asked hesitantly. “We could summon Vanniv again and ask—”

“No, Patrick.” Sera stared into the chamber. “Some mysteries are better left unsolved.”

We backed away from the doorway slowly. I didn’t feel safe until we were all the way back in the entrance room.

***I was almost too nervous to even ask what was in the bag, but eventually, I summoned up the courage.

Cautiously, Sera opened it. “Gems!” Her eyes widened. Cautiously, she levitated a finger-sized red crystal out. “Or, more specifically, I think these are mana crystals?”

My eyes narrowed as I looked at it, activating Detect Aura and inspecting it. “Fire Crystal, Class 2. What else is in there?”

She opened the bag wider. “Bunch of crystals of different colors.” She floated them out one at a time — none of us trusted that there wasn’t some kind of additional trap inside the bag itself, or some kind of evil slime coating one of the crystals. It only took a quick check to evaluate our find.

“One mana crystal of each base mana type, all Class 2. Not bad. You can put them back in the bag if you want, or I can box them.”

“Box them.” Sera said. “Assuming you’re willing to touch them.” “Let’s rinse them off first?”

It may have been excessive caution, but after the last couple rooms, we were willing to delay a few minutes to clean the crystals before packing them away.

With that done, we burned the bag, wishing we could burn our memories of that room at the same time.

“What ever happened to that universal crystal of yours, Corin?” Patrick asked.

“Still saving it. Haven’t found the right purpose for it yet.”

“Was wonderin’ ‘bout that.” Mara gave me a curious look. “Could you use a universal crystal to copy somethin’ like Keras’ unique mana?”

I shook my head. “I looked into it a little more. Universal crystals aren’t truly universal — they can only copy base mana types, not compound ones or other weird stuff. And even if it could copy what Keras does, I doubt I could enchant with it. No runes of that type.”

“Fair.” She nodded. “Any idea what you’re savin’ it for?”

“No, but it’ll probably be one of the more obscure types, like light. We’ve got Bright Reflection, but we’re short on other sources of light mana.”

“Let’s get back on track.” Sera motioned to the room with the skull lock. “Any preparations we need to make before heading to the next room?” “Better to refresh our mana.” I sat down at the base of the mana fountain, removing my waterskin and filling it with the mana water.

“Maybe stock up on this, too.”

We spent a few minutes drinking mana water, resting, and storing a bit of mana water for later use. Then, we headed to the door with the skull lock.

“Patrick, Mara, any advice based on your last expedition?” Sera asked. “The last spire guardian we fought was a big armored bear. Strong andtough, but not very fast.” Patrick paused, then belatedly added, “Oh, also it was on fire.”

Mara shook her head. “Fire bears are the worst.”

“Any traps, or was it a fairly conventional fight?” I asked.

“Just a standard fight. Was a little tough for just the two of us, but doable. We beat it through attrition.”

“Was that the only spire guardian you fought?” Sera asked.

“Yeah, only the first floor had a conventional spire design. Everything afterward was…weirder. We had plenty of fights after that, including some that were harder than the fire bear, but nothing else I’d call a spire guardian.”

“Sounds simple enough. Let’s see if we can get an eye on our opponent from the entrance. Be ready to move in case it jumps or attacks through the doorway.”

We headed to the door. Sera inserted the skull key, which vanished into the lock. Patrick reached for the door, but Mara put a hand on his arm.

“Let’s be a little safer about this one, yeah?” “Fair.” He took a breath, stepping back.

Mara touched the center of the door. It vanished entirely.

The room ahead was much larger, probably a hundred feet across and fifty feet wide. It was much taller, too, probably about fifty feet in height. There were four colossal pillars reaching upward toward the ceiling, each several feet wide. At the far end was a circular stairway blocked by stone walls on three sides and a barred metal gate on the front. There was an obvious keyhole for the gate.

We found the key easily enough. It was attached to the collar of a titanic three-headed lupine beast that snarled at us the instant the door vanished.

The moment we saw the wolf, we stepped out of the doorway out of instinct. This may have been a bit preemptive: the wolf didn’t exhale a breath of blistering flame from one of its three heads for at least two or three seconds.

Right after the wave of fire passed through the now-open doorway, Sera waved a hand in that direction. “Wall.” A wall of ice appeared, blocking the entrance. Given the power of that flame breath, I didn’t expect it to last long. The wolf itself wouldn’t fit through the doorway — it was about ten feet tall and several feet wide — but if it could get a head through the doorway after melting the wall, we’d be in trouble. “Suggestions?”

“I’ve got this one.” Patrick cracked his neck, stepping up to the ice wall. “It’s a tri-hound. Three heads, three breath weapons. It’s pretty similar to the chimera we fought in the final exam, just a little more agile and probably lower on durability. If you’ll get rid of the wall, I can handle it.”

“By yourself?” I blinked. “That’s a spire guardian, Patrick. You sure?” “Yep. And I won’t be alone.” He lifted his sword. “I’ve got BrightReflection, remember?”

I picked up on the basics of his plan immediately, but gave him a dubious look. “Does the sword have enough mana left for that?”

“It’s recovered over the last few rooms and during our break. I don’t think I’ll need full mana for this. You can always jump in if—”

A blast of lightning smashed into the ice wall, melting straight through the center of it.

“We’ll be on standby.” Sera waved a hand, shaping the remaining ice out of the way. “Go for it, Patrick.”

Patrick gave a grateful nod. I stared incredulously as he rushed straight into the spire guardian room. As he moved inside, the wolf focused all three heads on him immediately, growling and pawing at the ground.

I felt a surge of panic.

It’s going to charge. He can’t magically reflect a charge.

I stepped forward, but Sera put an arm in my way. “He needs this.”

The wolf roared and leapt. It crossed the space toward Patrick in a moment, ready to eviscerate him with now-flaming claws.

Just before it reached him, Patrick ducked down…then launched himself straight into the air.

A loud crack filled the air as he shot upward with blistering speed, easily evading the tri-hound’s pounce. Then without pause, he hurled a blast of lightning straight at the hound’s leftmost head. The blast connected before the hound could react, causing it to shudder and roar, turning its heads upward to inhale.

Patrick was already moving again, shooting across the room to avoid an exhaled gout of ice potent enough that I could feel the chill from the doorway. He hurled a blast of fire in response, but the hound was quick enough to see it this time, shifting one of its other heads to exhale a fireball and blast Patrick’s flames out of the air before they connected.

Patrick hurled a jagged bolt of lightning at the hound, but it sprang out of the lightning’s path, growling and sniffing at the air. Three heads focused narrowed eyes on Patrick, seemingly considering how best to devour someone who was floating in mid-air.

“Come on!” He cheerily waved with Bright Reflection. “I’m right here!”

The hound roared, then inhaled again, the eyes of its central head glowing bright crimson. Patrick floated in place until the moment the hound exhaled a wave of fiery breath, then casually evaded the jet of flame by flying to the side.

…Or, he tried to, anyway. The burning breath curved in mid-air, following his path.

Patrick didn’t panic — instead, he simply pulled back his sword and said, “Bright Reflection.”

His sword, a mere facsimile of the true Sacred Sword of Light, nevertheless glowed with a brightness rivaling the rising sun itself. It was too bright to even look at directly, but I was able to follow the result. With a casual swing of the brilliant brand, he smashed the incoming flame breath back at the hound.

The blast caught the hound dead-on, lighting a portion of its back fur on fire. It howled in agony, rolling on the ground to extinguish the flames — and in that moment, Patrick shot downward from the sky, ramming Bright Reflection into the tri-hound’s underbelly.

The sword sunk in deeply. Too deeply.

When the massive beast continued to roll, Patrick’s sword was embedded so far into it that the sword was torn from his grip. He barely managed to fly out of range before the hound smashed him with its flailing movements. A moment later, he was in the air again, but without his primary weapon. And while he’d done some damage with that lunge, it didn’t look anywhere close to fatal.

He hurled a few weak blasts of flame from the air, but the hound ignored them entirely, continuing to roll until the stronger flames from its own breath were extinguished. Then it pushed itself back to its feet, looking upward and growling loudly.

I thought I saw Patrick reach for something glittering in one of his sleeves, but then he hesitated, choosing to launch another blast of lightning instead of grabbing the object. The lightning arced in mid-air to the hilt of Bright Reflection, channeling straight through the sword and into the hound’s body. The tri-hound howled and shuddered, briefly pawing at the sword embedded in its underbelly, but the sword remained trapped in place.

Resh, that was a good plan. If he had his sword back…But it had failed. The hound turned back toward him, and I could see Patrick wobbling in mid-air. His mana was running low. Maybe critically low — it was too hard for me to tell at a glance.

Then all three heads began to inhale at the same time. Lightning sparked in the nostrils of one head, frost formed around another, and smoke gathered around the central head.

Meltlake took a step forward, but Mara raised a hand. “Don’t worry, Professor. He’s got this.”

The hound exhaled a torrent of three types of mana at once, each of the three attacks curving toward Patrick at a different angle. Without Bright Reflection, he had no way to turn the attacks against the hound, and they were far stronger than his own magic. The blasts might have been avoidable on their own, but three at once, with each head being able to control one… he didn’t stand a chance at evading them.

He didn’t need to.

Patrick’s hands shot out, one burning and the other wreathed in lightning. As the attacks approached, he hurled his own straight into them. His attacks weren’t even close to the same power as the hounds, but he didn’t need them to be.

Like deflects like, Teft’s words echoed in my mind.

That wouldn’t work against attacks that were overwhelmingly powerful, but Patrick had grown much stronger over the months since the year had begun. He couldn’t hope to contest the hound’s breath weapons directly, but such power wasn’t necessary — he just needed to nudge them slightly out of the way. Just enough to cause the two blasts he could deflect to collide with the one he couldn’t.

Nudged from their original path, the three attacks met in mid-air. Patrick needed to time his counterstrikes close to the point of impact to prevent the hound from reshaping its own breath like it had with the fire, which meant that they were almost close enough to hit him when it happened — and the explosive detonation in the air was a little too close. The sheer force of the explosion hurled Patrick backward, smashing him into one of the chamber’s walls.

In that moment, he was dazed. And in that moment, the hound chose to strike. The tremendous beast ran forward as Patrick shook his head to collect himself. He was still floating in mid-air, twenty feet off the ground. Too high even for the hound to reach in a single bound…but not, it seemed, too high to reach when it jumped on one of the chamber’s pillars, landing sideways on the surface, and then somehow leaping off of that and straight toward Patrick.

At that point, Mara got out of the way to let Meltlake move, but it was too late. The hound was airborne, lunging for Patrick with the jaws of its central head open wide, trailing smoke and fire.

Patrick was too slow to dodge, but not too slow to act. His right arm shot out and pointed with his wand. “Freeze.”

A lance of ice flashed out from the wand — and straight into the hound’s open mouth. Then, as it met with the flames within, the tri-hound met with a particularly explosive case of indigestion.

By which I mean to say that the tri-hound exploded.

The blast slammed Patrick into the wall again, and he sunk toward the floor. With a waved hand, Professor Meltlake steadied him on a gust of wind, slowly lowering him to the ground.

The key from the hound’s collar — the only thing remaining of the hound after the creature detonated — hit the ground with a “tink” before Patrick did.

I rushed over to Patrick as he landed on the ground. He was blinking rapidly and looked like an absolute mess, but he was otherwise visibly unharmed.

I grabbed him to help him to his feet. “Lesser Regeneration.” A flare of mana passed between us. Just because I didn’t see any injuries didn’t mean he hadn’t suffered any. “You okay?”

“Yep!” He took my hand and pulled himself back up. “Thanks, Corin!”

Sera came up right behind me. “Patrick. That was…amazing. You beat a spire guardian on your own!”

He blushed bright crimson. “Th—thanks, Sera. It wasn’t, uh, that big of a deal.”

“No, it was.” Meltlake put a hand on his forehead, rustling his hair. “You’ve made me proud, apprentice. Even I wouldn’t have tried that at your age.”

“I…uh, gosh. I…don’t know what to say.”

I pulled my hand back just in time to avoid Mara coming in and hugging him. “No more solo work like that for a while, yeah? You did great showing off there, but you can’t hog all the fun.”

Patrick laughed, still blushing. “Fine, fine. Thanks, everyone.”

“So, the ice was the wand, I get that. But how were you flying?” I asked. “I know you can levitate, but full-on flight is a higher-level spell than Carnelian, isn’t it?”

Patrick grinned. “You didn’t think I came out of the spire without any new toys, did you?” He lifted a foot to show me something I hadn’t paid attention to — a wing pattern on his boot. I hadn’t even realized he was wearing new boots, since I didn’t really pay much attention to fashion.

“Ooh. Flying boots. And since you’re already an Elementalist….”

“I can recharge them. And since I already had levitation experience, picking up on the fine control of flight wasn’t too hard.”

“And I take it the wand is your other reward from the last spire trip?” “Yep. Rounds out one of the last elements I needed. If I can get myhands on an earth item, I’ll have all the basics covered early, and I can start practicing for when I get them from my attunement at higher levels.”

“You get all of them from your attunement?” Mara asked. “Thought there was just a tertiary mana type at Citrine.”

“For most attunements, yeah. Elementalists get more mana types as a perk of the attunement. It’s how you see Meltlake using earth on occasion.”

“Well, it’s a little more complicated than that,” Meltlake said. “But this isn’t class. Let’s get to that next floor, shall we?”

Sera picked up the key, then offered it to Patrick. “I think you deserve to do the honors.”

Patrick laughed gleefully, finally dislodged himself from Mara’s hug, and took the key. “Thanks, Sera.” He glanced around. “Everyone ready?”

We gave him a round of confirmations. I did one last cursory check to make sure Patrick wasn’t visibly injured, and we took a couple minutes for Patrick to go drink some more mana water from the fountain in the previous room and recover. We retrieved Bright Reflection, of course, and Patrick gingerly replaced it in the scabbard at his side. Then, with Patrick looking somewhat refreshed, we walked as a group to the gate guarding the stairway. Patrick turned the key and the entire gate vanished, as if it had never been there.

Huh. Was that some kind of solid illusion or spell effect? I wonder if I could learn how to make gates that—“Corin, we’re going.” Sera gently nudged me, pointing toward the stairway.

“Oh, sorry. Coming.” I stared upward as my friends stepped onto the stairway, walking upward. Then, after one last look at the spire guardian’s room, I followed them.

And for the first time, I walked up the stairs to the second floor of one of the Soaring Spires.

