CHAPTER XI – EXTREME SHIPPING

There was a door at the top of the stairway. We briefly checked it for traps, finding none. When we opened it, we saw only a white space ahead.

“Is that…?” Sera asked.

“It’s perfectly normal,” Meltlake said in a reassuring tone. “All the doors in the spire teleport us. This one is just being a little more blatant. We’ll be in for a change of scenery on the other side of it, but that’s nothing to worry about. The Tiger Spire has a bit more variety than you’re probably used to from the Serpent Spire.”

Sera looked a little uncomfortable, but Mara squeezed her hand reassuringly. “We did a bunch of these doorways on the last trip. It’ll be fine.”

That seemed to help. Sera gave a weak smile. “Come on, then.”

Mara practically dragged Sera through the doorway. The rest of us followed.

I was ready for a change, but not quite the scale.

The most famous examples of teleportation tend to be titanic in scale. The ancient gateways in the Unclaimed Lands that supposedly used to allow people to walk from one place on the continent to another in an instant. Or Keras being sent from one continent to another by some bearded old wizard. Even the legends of fiends and heroes from other worlds finding their way to our own.

The teleportation I’d seen had been frankly pretty mundane by comparison. Routine. Fake escape bells to switch group members in the school exams. Real escape bells to leave a spire. Jump bells to cross a room. That teleportation potion I’d used to get rid of Mizuchi.

Okay, that last one was admittedly pretty good.

But small in scale, right? Nothing too flashy, nothing world-shaking.

Nothing that felt like long-distance travel.

So, it kind of took me off-guard a little when I stepped through a doorway and found myself staring into the heart of the ocean.

My first instinct was to freeze. This was good, since if I’d done what Keras probably would have and attacked the ocean or something, things would have ended badly for me.

(I make no claims as to whether or not Keras could have successfully punched out the ocean.)Anyway, there was only a thin guardrail between me and a long drop off the side of the……Was I on a ship?I was on a ship! And a huge ship, too.

It was at least a couple hundred feet wide and several hundred feet long. We were near one of the edges on the front of the ship — that’s, uh, the prow, right? No, I’ll just stop talking about ship terms. Okay.

The front of the boat. Yeah.

There were multiple sails. Four, I think? I also thought I heard the hum of something far below that sounded like an engine, but I didn’t see any stacks emitting steam. Maybe a mana-based engine, then, or something like one of those fancy combustion engines from Caelford? I wasn’t sure.

There were multiple doors leading to cabins on the top level, as well as a raised platform to another door. I thought I could see the wheel up there, but there were people in the way.

I tensed. We had room to maneuver, but there were a lot of people on board. My whole group had appeared around me, and we were hardly the only ones. I saw dozens, maybe hundreds of people standing around and chatting, or reclining on the deck, or working on what I presumed to be ship-running tasks. I noted a few in what looked like uniforms, as well as a much broader variety of outfits among other people. Most were in what looked like typical civilian garb, but I noted a few that looked like they were wearing military uniforms, and even one woman in a full suit of heavy copper armor.

A Soaring Wings member? Huh. Given her armor, we might have to be ready for a fight…which would be bad. Crowds get chaotic, and on a ship… I took a few steps away from the railing, remembering that myswimming abilities were, uh, let’s say “not good”.

While I reacted with my usual caution, the others were processing things differently. Patrick’s eyes were wide as moons as he stared out over the sea. “Oh, goddess above. It’s beautiful!”

I followed his gaze, and…well, I had to admit, he was right.

The pool of shimmering blue stretched beyond the horizon, with the sun shining brightly overhead—But that couldn’t be right. No, it was night time by now, wasn’t it?And, of course, we were obviously still inside the spire. Sure, some spire doorways were exits, and weirder things had happened than stepping through a spire door and ending up in another place.

I stared across the water, stretching in all directions further than I could perceive and wondered…How?I could feel the deck shifting beneath us as the waves gently rocked our vessel.

I could hear the sounds of birds crying out in the air as they soared across the water — some solitary, some in tremendous flocks.

I could see tiny aquatic animals breaking from the surface of the water to jump briefly through the air in playful fashion.

I could smell something in the air. Salt, probably, and…uh, sea brine? Honestly, I had no idea what sea brine actually was, but I was pretty sure it had a strong smell. Maybe.

Was…that all in my head? I didn’t feel any foreign mana, but maybe a sufficiently subtle spell could avoid my detection.

Was it just an illusion? Was I standing on a stone spire floor, sensing things beyond it that didn’t exist?Was this real, but on a smaller scale than it appeared? Were we on a boat in a swimming pool, with carefully projected illusions around it to make it seem—Nearby, I heard a gasp. I turned out of concern, but Mara was just gawking at a tremendous flight of birds that were moving overhead in formation. There had to be thousands of them. My own jaw went a little slack as I saw them wheel and shift directions as a group, seemingly without prompting.

Sera tapped her foot. “Impressive as this is, we need to focus. Over there. We’ve got people coming.”

I shifted to follow Sera’s gaze, finding a group approaching wearing what I’d guessed were uniforms — black outfits with loose pants, heavy boots, gloves, and tailored tunics with some sort of unfamiliar insignias. A quick flash of Detect Aura told me that the insignias weren’t magical, but the people approaching had Carnelian-level auras.

There were four figures approaching, led by an older woman with an easy smile and a confident gait. She had a wicked curved blade on her left hip and a dagger on her right. “Enjoying the sights?” She asked.

The three that trailed behind her were similarly armed, although much younger, and two of them were also carrying pistols. Modern revolvers, not the kind of old-fashioned flintlocks I associated with pirate stories.

Also, one of them — a guy with auburn hair about our age — had a parrot on his shoulder. A parrot.

Odds that these are pirates…rising.

From a quick gander around the rest of the ship, I didn’t get a pirate vibe. The ship was luxurious, well-maintained, and huge in stature. There were no obvious cannons or other weapons on the deck, nor did I see any peg-legs or claw prosthetics.

…Yes, yes, I know those are ludicrous stereotypes. But scenario floors were just as likely to be based around iconic images as they were to mirror historical events. Over-the-top faux pirates were absolutely a possibility, even if I didn’t see any at the moment.

Anyway, Sera reacted fastest to the oncoming group, giving a smile she probably would have called ‘cute’ and folding her hands in front of her in an unthreatening manner. “It’s a wonderful view. Have there been changes we should be aware of?”

What wonderfully vague leading question, I realized. Mentally, I grudgingly awarded Sera credit for prying for information instantly.

We certainly needed it — both in terms of the scenario itself and, uh, how to do basically anything involving a ship.

People from Kaldwyn didn’t sail virtually ever, and I was no exception. With the rest of the world conquered by the Tyrant in Gold, expeditions to other continents were a rarity. Sure, there were ships that circled around the continent rather than taking overland routes, but with the advent of trains, they were a lot less common.

And, as most of you know, I was sort of…isolated, as a youth. So, no ocean experience. Not a lot of water experience in general, strictly speaking.

The older woman shook her head. “No, sea is calm as a sleeping babe today. We’re making excellent time. If the goddess wills it to stay this smooth, we should make landfall early tomorrow.”

“That’s excellent news. Is there anything you need from us?”

The woman snorted. “What a polite young lady. No, dear, you’re our guests. Since payment was already rendered, you can just relax and enjoy the journey. Just make sure to spread the word about our excellent service when the voyage is over.”

“Of course. I’d be delighted to.”

“Excellent. Lunch is at the next bell, then…” The older woman frowned, getting the sort of distracted look that told me she’d noticed something amiss…or maybe gotten a telepathic message. “…If you’ll excuse me, I’ll hope to see you all at lunch.” She nodded her head, made a few quick hand signals to the crewmen following her, then headed swiftly toward an upper cabin. The crewmen dispersed throughout the ship, heading different directions.

I stared after them, trying to ignore the ominous feeling in my mind. After the crew members were out of range, our group huddled up.

“So…we’re on a boat.”

“You are, as always, a master of deductive reasoning, brother.” Sera shook her head in disapproval. “Yes, we are obviously on a boat.”

“I was just leading into the broader questions about that, Sera. Given the size, the demeanor of the crew, and the sheer number of people who aren’t wearing uniforms, this is probably some sort of private ship — either for mercantile purposes or simple luxury.”

“Reckon it’s more likely luxury or political,” Mara noted. “Too many people wearing their fanciest. Could be some mercantile goin’ on, but I don’t get the feelin’ that’s the main purpose.”

“You’re quite right, Mara.” Sera beamed at her. “It’s a luxury cruise.” I raised an eyebrow at Sera. “And you know this…how, exactly?”

Sera turned to Meltlake. “Do you want the honors of explaining exactly how doomed we are, professor?”

Meltlake gave Sera a smile. “I wouldn’t dream of ruining your fun.

Please, Sera, go right ahead. I’d love to hear your reasoning.”

“It’s simple, really. I suspected as soon as I saw the size of the ship and an older woman captain, but the pins gave it away. They’re the insignia of the Pan-National Sailing Foundation.”

I reached up to cover my face with my hand. “No. You’re kidding.” “Not at all, brother.”

“Uh, sorry, not getting this one.” Patrick frowned. “Who are they?” Mara winced and gave Patrick a sad look. “You’ve heard of the IronRedoubt, yeah?’“Oh, sure! That was one of the biggest ships in history! It….” He looked down at the ship, then back up at the crew. “…Wait, this isn’t…”

“I’m afraid it is, Patrick.” Sera gave him a strained smile. “The Iron Redoubt. Welcome to the world’s most famous nautical disaster.”

***I’d heard stories about the Iron Redoubt since childhood. It was a famous mystery — a powerful, well-equipped ship with hundreds of attuned on board had simply vanished. The ship was equipped with devices to send distress messages, both magical and mundane, as well as passengers with communication and teleportation magic at their disposal.

No distress messages had been sent. Instead, the last logged communication from the boat was a strange, eerie song, sent from every messaging device at once.

Sail, sail, into the distant breeze, Sail, sail, upon the open seas,Sail, sail, our hearts once filled with glee, Sail, sail, our cage eternallySail, sail, into the distant breeze, Sail, sail, until our bodies freeze, Sail, sail, for we can no longer flee,Sail, sail, until our souls are finally freeThere were numerous theories about the vanishing of the Iron Redoubt. Perhaps an unexpected natural disaster had claimed the ship, like a powerful storm. Maybe they’d run into some sort of magical phenomenon that had thrown the ship off course, leading them to sail in the wrong direction without realizing it until they were out of communication range. Perhaps the ship had been captured by mutineers, who had disabled the communications devices and incapacitated or killed the on-board Wayfarers. (Or maybe the Wayfarers had been involved in the coup, if one had happened.)Also, uh, ghost pirates. Popular hypothesis, ghost pirates.

I’d never given the idea of ghost pirates much credence, of course — even if those were actually a thing, which I was pretty sure they weren’t, I couldn’t see why their presence would have involved preventing communication or escape. Sure, maybe they were ghost pirates with powerful anti-magical abilities, but that just felt like a stretch, you know?…But standing on the deck of that ship, or at least a recreation of it, I was quickly beginning to be concerned about the possibility of ghost pirates. You can’t blame me.

How did you even deal with ghost pirates? I really hoped I wouldn’t have to find out.

***I had a pretty good idea of what we were dealing with — a scenario floor. Rather than having a whole bunch of rooms with separate challenges, this entire floor had a single central theme and very likely a single main goal.

I turned to Patrick and Mara first. “Suggestions based on your previous climb?”

“Didn’t hit anythin’ quite like this.” Mara shook her head. “Think it’ll be simple. Probably just solve the mystery in time to save everyone.”

Oh, good, all we have to do is solve one of the world’s most infamous unsolved mysteries. Easy.

I kept my thoughts to myself, at least in part because Sera spoke faster. “It’s possible we just need to escape ourselves. Saving the crew and passengers is more likely to just be a bonus with additional rewards, like the extra key I earned earlier.”

I shook my head at Sera. “It’s very important that you continue to remind us about your winnings, which we’ve already forgotten about in the few minutes that have passed.”

“Yes, of course.” She nodded. “Glad we’re in agreement.” I coughed.

Patrick spoke up next. “Maybe we should start by figuring out what our role is supposed to be? We’re passengers, but we don’t know what we’re supposed to be doing, exactly.”

“Is there usually something more specific?” I asked him.

“Sometimes scenario floors give people specific roles to play. Not all of them, but it may be worth checking.”

“How would we…”

Sera reached into a bag at her side, pulling out a booklet I didn’t recognize. “Huh.”

I blinked. “Is that…”

“A passport. With a boarding pass stuck into it.” She flipped it open, eyes widening. “It has my name on it. And a room number. And a profession.”

I reached into my own bag, finding a similar booklet and boarding pass immediately. “Huh.”

That was pretty impressive…and also a little terrifying. I knew that Whispers — and very likely other entities that were involved with running the spire — were probably observing us, but had they gathered enough information from seeing us on the first floor to prepare specific things for us on the second?And how’d they get things into our bags without us noticing?Creepy.

I looked at my documents regardless. My boarding pass and passport both had Corin Cadence written on them, so I apparently was still supposed to be myself for the scenario. Except there were a few little details that threw things off.

Corin Cadence Birth Date: 6-18Profession: Magical Engineer, Farren Labs Passport Expiry Date: NoneAttunements: Classified Room Number: 142I noted the distinct lack of a birth year, but beyond that, my profession was, uh, interesting.

Does Annabelle Farren herself have a hand in this, or am I simply being that closely monitored?I frowned, glancing to the others. “Apparently I work for Farren Labs.”

“I’m military.” Sera noted. “Also, you may congratulate me on my recent marriage.”

I snorted. “Who’s the unlucky match?”

“Why, you’re looking at the newest candidate for archduchess of House Theas.” Sera extended her arms in a magnanimous gesture. “Sadly, my spouse or spouses are not listed. Presumably they’re busy preparing the house for my eventual ascension.”

“Huh. Think I’m married, too.” Patrick blushed. “To, uh…”

“Me.” Mara laughed uproariously. “Wow, someone obviously had no idea who they were dealing with. Right, Patrick?”

“R-right. Of course.” He laughed a little awkwardly. “Obviously.” “Well, congratulations to you both, but let’s get focused. What are yourlisted professions? They might be relevant to who we have access to on the ship.”

“Duelist,” Mara noted. “Renowned duelist, apparently.” “Not bad. Patrick?” Sera asked.

“…School teacher.” He looked vaguely disturbed, but I think Meltlake’s expression changed to something proud.

Speaking of Meltlake… “What about you, professor?” I asked.

“Just says ‘redacted’. Presumably, I’m assumed to be back in military service in some capacity.” She slipped her documents back in her bag. I got the impression she was hiding something, but I couldn’t get a good read on what it might be.

“Okay. We’ve got a baseline of who we’re supposed to be. That likely dictates the types of social circles we’ll have easy access to. It’s a broad spread, which is good.” Sera turned to me. “Corin, go track down anyone else from Farren Labs or similar corporations. Maybe see if you can figure out anything in regards to the engine — I don’t think pretending interest in a magical engine would be out of character.”

“…Could I just go take a look at it?” There would be fewer people involved that way, and I was sincerely interested in looking at the runes on it.

“If you can talk your way into the engine room, sure, but I doubt it’ll be that simple. I suppose you might be in a role that’s involved with engine construction or maintenance?”

“Worth trying to feel that out.” I nodded. I didn’t like the idea of blindly trying to sort out my access level and role, but it could be worse. At least my role was similar enough to my own interests that I didn’t have to pretend a skill set that was distinct from my own.

“Patrick, you’re looking for other academics. Professor, if you’d be willing to go with him and assist?”

“Acceptable.” Meltlake nodded. “Given that this happens significantly in the past, we’ll have to be cautious about how much we should say. Lorian Heights exists, but we should avoid mentioning specific teaching staff names.”

Patrick nodded. “Got it.”

Sera turned to Mara last. “You’re with me. We’re schmoozing with military types. I’ll see if I can flag down the captain and see what that disruption was about, too. Any questions?”

I had a lot of them, but I held off. After a moment of silence, Sera said, “Good. Meet back here in an hour, unless you find something obviously amiss, in which case try to flag us down sooner. Let’s move.”

***Predictably, I went straight toward the engine room. The fewer people I had to deal with, the better.

There were guards, of course. Two of them stood in front of the engine room’s open doorway. Any cruise with a crew of this size was going to have guards for the engine room. I had to hope I could sweet talk my way past them.

Sweet talk, of course, being the key skill of Corin Cadence. First, I activated Detect Aura, taking some mental notes.

Carnelian-level, both hand-marked. No gloves…Elementalist and Guardian.

I dispelled the spell, then gave a little wave as I approached. “Hi. Can I see the engine?”

“…No?” One of the guards responded, blinking. “Why would you even ask that?”

“Oh, oh, sorry!” I raised my hands in mock-surrender, trying to look as helpless as possible. “I’m Corin Cadence. Farren Labs. Just wanted to see if I could…”

“Nice try, buddy,” the other guard cut in. “Our rune combinations are proprietary. You filthy lab rats aren’t stealing them. Not on my watch. Now, screw off.”

“Hey,” the other guard nudged him, “we’re not supposed to be that aggressive with the guests.”

“Right, of course. Kindly go screw off.” The guard tipped his hat mockingly.

“Yes, of course, forgive me.” I bowed in exaggerated fashion, then slowly turned and walked away to retreat around the corner.

I couldn’t walk too quickly. That would have torn the mana threads that I’d hurled through the doorway as I’d waved.

I hadn’t quite figured out how to see through my mana threads yet, although I was absolutely certain it was possible. I planned to study some divination for that purpose once I got back home, but alas, for the moment, I had to improvise.

Once around the corner, I closed my eyes and concentrated on the threads. Gradually, I unspooled the end of each of them and let them spread out further, then used transference mana to push the threads across the room. I’d been able to see the engine from the doorway, just not the runes themselves. It wasn’t difficult to get the threads going in the right direction.

Standing nearby, just around the corner, was going to look suspicious. I began walking back toward the location of my quarters, carefully extending the mana threads as I walked.

Mana threads were invisible to anyone without the proper types of magic to see them. Neither Elementalists nor Guardians had access to the necessary mana types to see them.

The hardest part of the process was avoiding tearing the threads as I moved into my assigned room, then closed the door behind me. The threads were thin enough to fit in the cracks under the door, but only just.

Then began the real work: cautiously pushing the mana threads around the engine until I found the runes on the surface.

Identify.

I pushed the spell through my mana threads each time I found a rune, mentally processing functions.

Transference Recharge. Transference Function: Push.

Air Recharge.

Air Function: Weight Reduction Transference Recharge…I mentally mapped each of the runes on the surface, making notes about how they worked, and, with growing alarm, the ones that were missing.

Oh, no.

It was possible I was missing some of them somehow. I was flailing around with my mana threads blindly, after all. But even after an extensive search of every possible surface of the engine, I hadn’t found any capacity runes.

And without capacity runes, an engine would eventually, you know… Explode.

***I didn’t wait the full hour before heading back to the main deck to find the others. Sera was already there, chatting with someone that looked important.

I ignored propriety entirely. “Sera. Talk. Now.”

Sera gave a strained smile to her conversation partner. “Forgive my brother’s impertinence, Earl Freemont.” She glared at me. “Can this wait?”

“It probably shouldn’t.”

The Earl gave me a disdainful look. “It’s fine. We were just finishing, anyway.” Then, without another word, he spun on his heel and walked away.

“Wait, I…” Sera winced, raising a hand, then slowly lowering it. With an exasperated sigh, she turned back toward me. “This had better be good. I think I was about to swing an important international trade agreement.”

I rolled my eyes. “On a scale of one to dead, how would you rate the importance of the ship combusting?”

“…Go on.”

I explained the problem.

“Okay. Yeah, that does seem like an issue…or, maybe not. I mean, as long as we’re moving, it’s using mana, right?”

I nodded. “At approximately the same rate as the recharge runes are refilling it. Currently. It’s plausible, if extremely foolish, that this could have been corner-cutting in the design: they might have thought they didn’t need capacity runes as long as the engines are always on, since theywouldn’t accumulate enough mana to explode. The danger occurs under one of two conditions: one, we stop moving, the engine overcharges and explodes. Two, we move into a region with a higher mana concentration, causing the recharge runes to pull in mana faster. The engine explodes.”

“Don’t only some recharge runes pull from the environment?” “Yeah. These ones do. I checked.”

Sera nodded. “Okay. So, we’re fine, just as long as neither of those things happen, right?”

“I mean, in theory, sure. It’s a terrible engine design, but, yeah, as long as nothing like that happens…”

The sound of a horn cut me off mid-sentence, then a booming voice made an announcement:“All hands, brace for anchor. Another ship is approaching.”

For once, Sera and I were perfectly in sync as we covered our faces with our hands in abject disbelief.

***My dismay at the situation quickly gave way to desperation as the ship’s motion jerked into a halt.

“Okay, new plan.” Sera glanced from side-to-side, then leaned over and whispered the words to her cunning plan.

I stared at her. “Sera. I am not going to seduce the guards.” “Okay, fine. Here’s the actual plan…”

***I walked back down the stairway to the engine room, approaching the same pair of guards. I got a similar expression to last time.

I waved again. “Hey, just thought you should know…” I pointed a thumb upward. “Ghost pirates.”

The guard on the right narrowed his eyes. “Ghost…pirates.”

The guy on the left went sheet-white. Or, uh, ghost white, maybe. “… Haha. That’s, uh, a real funny joke, guy. Very amusing.”

“No, not kidding. That’s why we’re anchored. They can probably use your help up there.”

The guard on the right sighed. “Look, buddy, we’re not going to move and let you—”

An ear-piercing scream tore through the air. Then another.

Then another.

I shuddered at the sounds. The guards gave each other glances, then reached for the swords on their hips.

“Get to your quarters and lock the door,” one of the guards told me. “Quick.”

I nodded, trying to look a little more afraid, then ran back up the stairs.

I had, of course, once again thrown the mana threads. This time, however, I wasn’t trying to reach the engine: I had simply spread them across the floor.

When I got to my room, I used the mana threads to sense when the guards ran across them and up the stairs, abandoning their post.

Then, slowly, I reopened the door and snuck back down to the engine room.

I tugged on another mana thread, already in place. A few moments later, Sera came down the stairs and met me at the engine room.

I’d given her a thread before going down stairs to use for signaling. I’d tugged it when I’d been ready for her to make the scream — not naturally, of course. Generating an ear-splitting scream was one of the easiest applications of air magic.

Then, I’d tugged it again as a signal that the area was clear.

I suspected that real guards on a real ship wouldn’t have abandoned their posts so easily. Maybe this had only worked because it was a scenario for the tower…but maybe that was just wishful thinking.

Maybe people really were, at times, simply that easy to fool.

It didn’t take me long to perform a visual inspection of the engine, confirming what I suspected. “Ready?” I asked Sera.

“Ready.”

“Let’s make this quick. Retrieve: Etching Rod.”

It didn’t take long to carve the necessary capacity runes for Air and Transference. Once I’d carved them, I filled the transference one myself, then made a shell. Sera had a harder time filling that one on her own quickly enough to reach capacity, so she summoned Vanniv, and they poured air mana into it together.

With that done, she dismissed Vanniv, and we raced upstairs as quickly as possible.

After all, the others probably needed our help fighting the ghost pirates.

***“Hah!” Mara’s fist swirled with energy as she slammed it into a half- corporeal pirate’s chest.

“Yarrr!” he yelped sadly as he flew off the side of the boat, producing a splash several seconds later.

Mara grinned, making a gesture of dusting off her hands. “Think that was the last one.”

…Ghost pirates, it seemed, were more comedic than terrifying. At least in this particular case.

An hour later, the boat resumed its journey, pirate-free and no longer liable to explode the next time it made a lengthy stop.

“So, think that was it?” Patrick asked. “We solve the mystery?” “Hm.” Sera frowned. “I’m going to go with no.”

“Why is that?” Patrick asked.

“Because,” Sera raised a finger and pointed off the side of the ship, “There’s, uh, a giant tentacle behind you.”

***After that, we fought a kraken.

Or, more accurately, we screamed like children and fled as a gigantic tentacle smashed down on the deck of the ship, then spread out in all directions, preparing for battle.

The kraken emerged from the water in its full glory, a squid-like beast nearly the size of the ship itself, with a maw open wide enough to swallow the crew in a single ferocious bite.

…And about two seconds after that, the entire world went white. The clouds evaporated.

And a sphere of fire larger than the creature itself descended from the sky.

Meltlake snapped her fingers. The sphere exploded in a cacophonous destination that shook the entire ship.

And then, in a heartbeat, it was over.

The kraken was gone, the only evidence of it ever having existed was a single charred tentacle that remained draped across the deck of the ship.

Meltlake gazed over the deck, her expression uncharacteristically serious.

Both crew and students alike stared at her, awe-struck and jaws slack.

She frowned, turned away from the destruction, and said to no one in particular…“I’ve never liked squid.”

If there was some squid-related story that gave rise to that encounter, not one of us had the courage to ask.

We did learn that evening, however, that kraken meat was absolutely delicious.

***Later that night, I knocked at the door of Professor Meltlake’s room. “Come in,” she called out.

I opened the door, finding her sitting at her room’s small desk. She turned toward me and frowned. “What is it? I’m sure you can handle whatever danger you’ve found without me.”

I folded my arms. “I’m not so sure about that. But there’s no danger right now…or, at least, none that I’m aware of. That’s part of what I wanted to talk to you about.”

Meltlake winced. “Close the door behind you, would you?” I stepped in further and shut the door. “Better?”

“Yes.” She nodded. “Now, out with it.”

“Why’d you obliterate the kraken like that? It was very impressive, but I thought you were supposed to be letting us do the work…unless you thought we couldn’t handle it on our own?”

Meltlake’s hands trembled. “You…I….” She took a breath. “I panicked.”

I blinked.

This was not what I expected. “What?”

“I panicked, Corin. I saw a threat to my students, I remembered my failure at the ball, and…I couldn’t let that happen again. So, I attacked, and I…I’m sorry. I ruined it. I didn’t give you all a chance.”

Her unexpected emotion caught me more than a little off-guard, so I wasn’t really sure what to do. I certainly wasn’t equipped to comfort someone that much older and more experienced than myself. I wasn’t even equipped to see her looking vulnerable. So, I kind of stammered a bit, then said, “Uh, it’s fine. It was…a great attack?”

She raised a hand, rubbing at her forehead. “Perhaps by the standards of these early tower floors. It wouldn’t have done a thing to Mizuchi.”

“…Okay. But I’m sure you have attacks designed for people like her.

Things like that white fire that you sometimes use with your cane, or…” “It’s not enough.” Meltlake trembled. “And it never will be, will it?Even if I earn another attunement, it’s…just a big joke, isn’t it? I will never match her.”

I exhaled a breath. “I don’t know if that’s true. Mizuchi was horrifying, yes, but…we hurt her, didn’t we? And if she can be hurt…”

Meltlake gave a bitter laugh. “She was holding back more of her strength than she showed. All my life, I’ve striven to reach the pinnacle of human strength…but it seems the peak simply isn’t high enough.”

I frowned at that. “Professor…I know you didn’t want me to talk about it before…but…what about Sapphire-level? If you reached that, then—”

“There is no Sapphire-level, Corin.” I froze.

“I spent the best years of my life working toward Sapphire.” Meltlake turned her head toward me, meeting my gaze with sad eyes. “I made hard choices. Sacrifices…some too large to even speak of. I…I wanted nothing more. It was everything to me, but… it was never real. It’s just one big legendary joke.”

“…No. Wait. That doesn’t…” I took a moment to process. “It can’t be a lie. I’ve seen blue auras.”

“Ah. Yes.” Meltlake cleared her throat. “As a teacher, I should be ashamed of my lack of clarity. Humans do not have a Sapphire level. Attunements do not have a Sapphire level. Monsters, on the other hand, do. They have Sapphires…and beyond it. And that is why we will never be enough. Why I will never be enough.”

“I…wait. No. That can’t be right. Is it something like the Sunstone Wall, but at Emerald? You can’t build mana fast enough to reach the amount you’d need—”

“I have the mana. I have for years.”

I was once again rendered speechless.

“Sixty for Carnelian. Three hundred and sixty for Sunstone. Two thousand one-hundred and sixty for Citrine. Twelve-thousand nine-hundred and sixty for Emerald.” She paused, looking down with a crestfallen expression.  “Seventy-seven  thousand,  seven  hundred  and  sixty  forSapphire. It’s always a factor of six. And yet, I reached that mana value years ago. And…nothing happened.”

“N…nothing?”

She shook her head. “Not a thing. And before you ask, I have, of course, researched if there may be mistakes in my safe mana calculations. Checked them a hundred times, using different spells, different sources. I’ve researched if there might be alternate requirements to reach Sapphire. And what I’ve found…? Nothing.”

“But…wait. There are hidden attunement functions, things that even Arbiters can’t see, things that…”

“It’s not Sapphire, Corin.” She shook her head. “It never was. We were told a bitter lie about human potential. We have, and always will be, incapable of reaching the heights of monsters. And with that…I know I will never be strong enough to protect my students. Not from Mizuchi, and certainly not if someone worse strikes. If the God Beasts emerge from their homes, or if Katashi chooses to exact vengeance for Tenjin’s absence…”

She put her face in her hands. “I will be helpless.”

“…You’re not helpless, Professor.” I took a step closer, then hesitated. Reaching for her physically wasn’t something I was comfortable with, and I simply wasn’t good at this sort of situation in general.

But I knelt by her chair and looked up at her. “You’re still a hero. You’re a legend. And when you fought Mizuchi, you did make a difference. Beyond that…there’s a whole wide world out there. Attunements aren’t the only forms of power. There are the crystal shrines, artificial attunements, all the types of magic in the outside world…”

Meltlake sighed, wiping at her eyes. “I know. I’m sorry. I didn’t mean for you to see this weakness in me. It’s…unbecoming of a professor, and I am setting a bad example for you.”

“I’m glad to have a professor who’s greatest flaw is that she cares about her students well-being too much.” I paused, exhaled a breath, and shook my head. “…You really have more than seventy-seven thousand mana?”

She nodded slowly. “I do.”

I folded my arms, smiling as best I could. “Then you’ve been holding out on us, professor. You have to have figured out some incredible tricks to advance that quickly.”

“…Maybe a few.” She made a weak smile in return.

“Well, then. Rather than worrying so much about being able to protect us on your own…” I clasped my hands together. “How about you focus a little more on getting us to your level, or higher? And then, maybe, just maybe…a few silly kids like us might be able to help you, if the time comes when we face a major threat.”

Her expression shifted, playing through several complicated emotions at once. More than I could read.

Then finally, after a moment of hesitation, she said, “I’ll consider your proposal, Master Cadence.”

I nodded, taking that as a sign that the discussion had reached its conclusion. “Thanks.” I took a breath, then added, “Thanks for everything, Professor. And keep fighting. We still need you.”

I made my way out of the room. As I turned to close the door, I thought I heard a faintly whispered reply:“…I’ll try.”

***The following morning, we made landfall. This was a good thing, because we’d spent the night sleeplessly awaiting any further twists.

More dangerous ghost pirates. More krakens.

Ghost pirate krakens.

Nothing would have surprised me at that point. We were all exhausted when we finally disembarked.

Mara led the way down the platform onto the shore…and vanished. I might have been more alarmed if I hadn’t suspected that we’d reached the end of our floor.

One at a time, we stepped off the ship.

And one at a time, we each vanished, finding ourselves on the third floor of the spire.

