CHAPTER XVIII – ARBITERS

As soon as the tower’s doors opened, we were greeted by monsters.

A line of golems marched out first. A dozen squat constructs of stone, followed by six made of solid metal. Behind those were another squad of six wrought from what looked like living wood.

They moved efficiently in straight lines, allowing for more and more creatures to follow them out of the spire.

A pair of gargoyles descended from the upper reaches of the spire, landing to perch atop the shoulders of two of the lead stone golems.

After that, a sequence of mismatched humanoid beings with little resemblance to one another. An orange-skinned man with hair made of pure fire. A woman with pale skin and a tornado making up the lower half of her body. A hairless and androgynous entity with purple skin and wearing a matching purple suit with twin curved swords on their hips.

Elementals, most likely, but significantly less human-looking ones that Researcher and the others I was generally familiar with. I wasn’t sure if that indicated anything about their level of power or if they were simply different categories of creatures. I knew elementals came in staggering varieties, and I knew many of those types, but I couldn’t reliably identify them all at a glance.

Finally, a pair of silvery-white haired people that looked near identical to each other, wearing pure-white robes and each having a straight sword sheathed on their hips. Aside from their strange hair, at a glance they looked more human than the rest of the creatures that had emerged.

That didn’t mean much. Mizuchi had looked mostly human at a first glance, save for her own strange hair, too.

My jaw tightened at the sight. It reminded me of nothing more than the incidents with the monsters spewing forth from the Serpent Spire back at the academy — signs of Katashi’s displeasure that caused terrible chaos and destruction. The recollection of Mizuchi only helped solidify that image.

Where those demonstrations of righteous anger had taken lives, this one had a different feel: the monsters all stopped in what must have been pre- specified positions, then turned toward the tower entrance…and fell to their knees.

That’s…a little intimidating.

I took a deep breath at the sight, trying to steady myself.

Don’t panic. Don’t screw this up. Tristan needs your help. Failure is not an option.

Then, alone, he finally appeared.

The figure that walked out of the tower doors last was nothing like the monsters that had come before. He looked to be about forty-years old, with a brown beard and hair showing healthy amounts of gray. He walked with a heavy staff in hand with a peculiar white sphere on the top, very likely some sort of magical crystal.

He was draped from head-to-toe with jewelry. A heavy, heart-shaped amulet sat over his chest. He had jewel-encrusted rings on every single finger, all of which glowed with inner light. A broad golden circlet sat on his head in a position that looked like it was probably upside down, but I couldn’t say for certain.

His heavy robes were covered in the widest variety of runes I’d ever seen on a single magical item. There must have been hundreds of symbols on them. This ordinarily would have been extremely intimidating, except I was an Enchanter, and I could tell at a glance that the overwhelming majority of those runes had no function whatsoever aside from generating a mild glow effect.

My initial impression was intense confusion.

This man was, it seemed, an extremely powerful individual that was trying very hard to look like a charlatan.

Detect Aura.

A flash of colors overwhelmed my vision. Most of the creatures ahead of me registered as Citrine, with the exception to those nearest the tower door. The white-haired people had brilliant green auras, and finally, the strange man near the door had no visible aura at all.

The older man walked down the steps of his tower and toward us, straight through the crowd of kneeling monsters. Then he turned to Len and waved wildly toward Sera and me. “Who are they? Why’d you bring them here? Are others coming? Are they coming? Is it happening?”

Len raised a hand in a placating gesture. “Easy there, Master Constantine. This is Corin Cadence, the one I spoke to you about before, and his sister, Sera Cadence. You had said you wanted to talk to Corin.”

“Did I?” He frowned, then looked at me. There was a flash across his deep-brown eyes and for just an instant, they turned completely black.

No, not completely. For a heartbeat, I could see glimmering flecks of white in them, like tiny stars.

Then his eyes fluttered shut and returned to their normal brown when he reopened them. “Ah. It’s him. The Cadence boy. Why didn’t you say so?”

Len, of course, had said so, but neither of us spoke to correct him. Instead, I simply chose to introduce myself properly. “That’s right, I’m Corin Cadence. I’m a fellow Arbiter. Len mentioned you had a problem I could help with?”

“A problem?” He shot her a look. “A problem? How much did you say?Where did you say it? How secure—”

“It’s okay, Warren. I was extremely vague with him. We knew not to speak outside of your tower. Can we go inside so we can speak more freely? I’m sure our young friend has many questions.”

“Dangerous things, questions,” Warren Constantine mused to no one in particular. “Almost as dangerous as answers.”

He spun on his heels and walked toward the tower entrance. “Come.

Quickly. Before they hear us.”

It was only at that point that I saw that beneath his gilded robes, Warren Constantine was wearing a floppy pair of worn sandals.

…What.

I shook my head at the incongruity of the image, then cautiously followed Warren Constantine into his strange, terrifying tower.

***There was a flash of light as we walked through the doors, then I was in a different environment. You’d think that I might have expected that, given my prior experience with spires, but this was not a spire. Not a true one anyway.

Still, somehow, it approximated the same effect.

I found myself standing in a circular chamber with a carpeted floor, a central staircase, and a table in the center with four chairs. The walls were lined with bookcases.

And, worryingly, there were no obvious entrances or exits.

Warren shifted his staff into his arms and capped his hands as soon as we materialized inside. “Tea!”

A glowing ball of light manifested in the center of the room, holding a teapot. It began to tilt the pot over……and spilled the liquid directly onto the table.

“No, no!” Warren shouted, running to the table. “Into cups! Cups!” I blinked at the sight.

Warren grimaced, whistled, and then dropped his staff onto the floor. “You!” He pointed at the glowing ball. “Get the others, clean up this mess!” The sound of something like a “huff” came from the glowing light ball,then it vanished.

Warren turned toward me, his expression shifting in an instant from perturbed to suspicious. “And you. You. Why are you here?”

I stared at him, then pointed at Len. “She brought me?”

Len nodded. “And you asked me to bring him as soon as possible, remember?”

Warren scratched at his head. “Did…did I? I think I should remember such a thing. Perhaps I should….”

Len’s eyes widened in alarm. “Warren, don’t!”

He smiled and tapped his forehead. “Restore Memory.”

For a moment, his eyes shut, then he staggered backward. Len shot forward and caught him before he could fall over backward.

When he reopened his eyes, he shuddered. “Oh…oh. That…that was a mistake, wasn’t it?”

Len winced. “Warren, you need to be more careful. That type of sorcery will…”

“I know, I know. The erosion. It’s getting worse, isn’t it?” He sighed, and Len helped him stand back up more completely. “But I remember now. For the moment, at least.” He turned and shook his head like a wet dog trying to clear off water, then turned to me with a groan. “Master Cadence. Miss Cadence. Forgive me for the poor greeting and the poorer company. If we had met a mere few years earlier, perhaps I could have offered you the proper hospitality you deserve.”

His tone sounded entirely different. Less suspicious, more lucid and collected. That might have been comforting if not for the hint of overwhelming sadness in his words. “Think nothing of it. I’m pleased to meet you.”

“Likewise.” Sera gave a little bow, then glanced around the room, presumably scanning for any threats. The golems and other monsters hadn’t appeared behind us: perhaps if they’d returned, they’d been transported directly to different places in the tower.

“You may think differently soon enough.” He grunted, then hobbled his way down to a chair and sat heavily in it with a groan. “Please, sit. I…think there will be proper tea soon.”

I nodded and sat down on the opposite side of the table. Sera sat down next to me. Len moved to sit next to Warren, giving him a look of concern.

“Now,” Warren began, “thank you for coming here. I recognize it required a high degree of trust. Len, have you checked them both?”

“I have. They’ve been to the lab, but they’re still unmarked.”

I quirked an eyebrow at that. “Care to explain what you mean?”

“No artificial attunements or sigils of employ for Farren Labs,” Len explained. “If you had those, Master Constantine would not have permitted your entry.”

“They’re compromised in some way?” Sera asked.

“Precisely, young miss.” Warren nodded to her. “Tracking and scrying functions. Perhaps worse, depending on just how far that horrible creature has gone in recent years.”

We’d speculated about that possibility, but I still was pained to hear it. Not that I was going to take Warren at face value, of course. I knew he’d had a falling out with Farren and could be unfairly biased. He was also clearly suffering from some kind of cognitive issue……a type that, unfortunately, seemed entirely too familiar.

I didn’t ask if he’d been overusing his mental mana, but I didn’t have to. Either he was suffering from the same illness I’d feared every time I’d used my own attunement mark or something remarkably similar to it.

Strangely, I didn’t see an attunement mark on his forehead. Hidden, then? Or was he simply drawing from his mind without having an attunement in that spot?I had many, many questions, but Sera got to one first. “What is this place? Some sort of…artificial spire?”

Warren smiled at Sera. “All spires are artificial in a certain sense, Miss Cadence. All attunements are, as well. They’re all manufactured products, simply made with different hands.”

“May I ask the purpose of this place, then?” Sera tilted her head to the side in curiosity. “Are you intending to provide an alternate source of attunements, without the requirement to go through the goddess trials?”

“My, my. You’re a quick one. That was, at one point, my principal goal.” Warren smiled sadly. “For the moment, however, this place has other purposes. More on that in time, perhaps, but I have precious few minutes to speak to you before…I will be less able to do so.”

Sera frowned, but simply said, “Of course.”

“Let’s get to business, then, shall we?” Warren gave me a sad smile. “Another Arbiter. It’s been years since I’ve seen one…and an Enchanter as well. Were I capable, I would offer to make you my apprentice. In better times, I believe I could have taught you a great deal.”

My heart sank. “You can’t teach me, then?”

“Not much, I’m afraid. I…have difficulty focusing these days. I could perhaps teach you a smattering of things. Useful things, that might help you avoid the same fate that…” He sighed. “Sorry, I’m sorry. I need to focus.”

Len rested a hand on his arm. “It’s okay, Warren. Tell them what you need.”

“Safe,” he murmured. “I need to be safe. We need to be safe. Can…can you start?”

“Of course.” Len patted his arm, then turned to me. “This place has significant magical defenses in place. They are failing.”

“Failing?” I asked.

Warren turned to Len, then back to me. “You…you are familiar with the temples and shrines in the Unclaimed Lands, yes?”

I nodded. “Sure. We stopped at one of the sword shrines on the way here.”

Warren’s nose twitched in disdain. “Ah, ‘sword shrines’. Another instance of Selys’ propaganda. Those shrines long predate her coming to these lands, you know.”

“I’m aware, but it seems the most notable thing they’re used for at present.”

His shoulders slumped. “For those fool sword-seekers, certainly. For some of us, those shrines are…more.”

“The crystals?”

“Yes, yes. The crystals. Those…beautiful crystals.” He sighed deeply, seeming to lose his focus.

Len picked up the conversation for him. “There are dozens of crystal shrines in the Unclaimed Lands. The elemental temples are the greatest of them, but each of these shrines holds tremendous value. Every single crystal has vast abilities at their command. And, until recently, one of them was Warren’s primary power source.”

“His primary power source? He was using a crystal to, what, give himself access to different types of magic?” I raised an eyebrow at that.

“In a manner of speaking.” Warren responded, not looking in my direction. “I wasn’t the only one using it, of course, but it was a valuable resource to me — until some adventurers,” he spat that word, “decided to take an interest in the region.”

I had a feeling I knew some of those adventurers — Lars and Keras may very well have been among the members of the expedition that had ruined whatever Warren’s plans were. I certainly wasn’t going to say anything about that, though. “And you want me to…what, convince the crystal to work with you again?”

His face drifted upward, toward the floors above us. “Oh, it’s far too late for that. And more complicated. That crystal is no longer useful. For the moment, what I need is an alternate power source for a powerful artifact in my possession.”

I frowned. “And you want me to secure a crystal for that purpose?” “I…no. Well, yes, but…no.” He winced, shaking his head as if wet.

Len chimed in again. “Moving one of the shrine’s crystals or subverting its power to another locale would be a colossal task, even for Warren. This is much simpler. A temporary measure. We know of the locations of several of the crystal shrines. There is one that would be capable of making a Class 5 mental mana crystal that we could use as a temporary replacement power source. It would not be perfect…more like an extension on an important deadline. With it, Warren would be able to put certain plans back into motion.”

“Class 5?” I blinked. “That’s…absurdly potent.”

Len nodded. “And only a fraction of what we truly need. It will be used to supplement the artifact, as well as another Class 5 crystal of a different type already in my possession.”

I turned to Warren. “Is there something we could do to get you a more permanent means of solving whatever problem you’re dealing with?”

“I…no. Not now. I need help right now. This is how I need you to help me right now.”

“We could potentially discuss permanent solutions and additional rewards later,” Len offered, “but Warren is right. We’ve already identified a good solution for the immediate future, let’s focus on that.”

“Speaking of rewards, if we were to assist you,” Sera began, “what would we be getting in return?”

Warren gave Len a helpless look. “I don’t think I…”

Len turned to Sera. “We’ll provide you with some information on how to use both of your attunements more effectively. Arbiter-specific and Invoker-specific information that you won’t be able to get easily elsewhere. Perhaps we could include you in some future matters of political interest, but I make no specific promises in that regard.”

“With due respect, the primary reason I wanted to speak to you, Master Constantine, was more about a political issue. Have you heard of the various factions of Whispers that are—”

He winced and shuddered. “No, no. Can’t. Not right now.” I frowned, giving Len a look. “Is he…”

“He’ll be fine. Better, if you help us. The lack of a crystal has put strain on Warren. He’s been powering many of the tower’s considerable defenses with his own mana, and that has been…challenging.”

My mind swam with the images of the tower’s scale and the sheer number of minions that had marched outside. The mana it would take to try to maintain that many constructs, summons, and defenses on his own…That was absolutely mind-boggling. Not even an Emerald could hope to do something on that scale. Which, of course, was probably the problem.

“Let’s table that discussion for now, then. You will owe us each a significant favor if we do this. Is that agreeable?”

Len gave Sera a hard look. “He’s not exactly in a fair position to agree to an open-ended favor.”

Warren waved his hand. “Fine. It’s fine. Get me what I need, I’ll do whatever I can. Nothing absurd.”

Sera shrugged. “Good enough for me. What exactly is it that we need to do?”

“It will only require one of you,” Len noted. “Assuming you succeed. There’s a particular shrine I can transport one of you to that will offer the crystal as a possible reward if you successfully complete the challenges there. Either one of you could take the challenge, then take the crystal as your reward. Or you could both try it, but you will be alone once you step inside, and we only need one crystal.”

“But we would both get rewards from the shrine itself if we succeed, correct? And there are options beyond just the crystal?”

“That’s correct.” Len noted.

Sera and I exchanged looks. “We’ll both go do it. Probably one at a time, so we can feed each other information after one person attempts it.”

“Excellent.” Len nodded. “Let’s rest here, then head out in the morning?”

“I’m fine with that.” Sera noted. “Do you have accommodations available for us here?”

“Yes, of course.” Len noted. “Warren, can I take them up to rooms?”

Warren nodded weakly, then waved. “Yes, fine. Th…thank you. All of you.”

“Come on, then.” Len stood up. “I’ll see you both to your rooms.” “We’ll stick together for tonight, if you have a big enough chamber forus both.” Sera noted. “Security.”

“I understand completely.” Len noted, and even Warren gave a grunt and a look of acknowledgement. “This way.”

Len led us up the stairway to a second floor, then a third. Finally, she led us off to a titanic set of doors, spoke a few words, ran a finger in a pattern across the wood, and opened it.

The chamber ahead was the largest bedroom I’d ever seen. There were two titanic beds in opposite corners, bookcases lining the walls, and a pair of large wooden desks with comfortable looking chairs. On the left and right sides were doors to other rooms, which a quick check showed to be washrooms.

“Not bad,” Sera murmured.

“Do you two require anything else before I head out?” Len asked.

I considered asking for food, but recalling Warren’s condition, I felt it was best to let Len get back to him as quickly as possible. “We’ll be fine. Thanks for the room.”

Len nodded, bowed, then departed the chamber.

“So,” Sera smiled, “we raiding the bookshelves for rare and powerful magics?”

“Obviously.” We got to work.

***We chose to sleep in shifts that night. I took the first watch, since I was far too jittery to go to bed right away. After that, Sera would wake me and take her shift. She summoned Vanniv to keep me company for my own shift and double up on defenses, but we didn’t chat, we just sat and read books.

Constantine had some fascinating tomes in his collection: histories, fiction, and most importantly books on magic. Many were familiar to me, but he had a number of books I’d never even heard of. Older books, most likely from the continent of Mythralis, and earlier generations of Enchanting books that were no longer in the university curriculum.

I devoured what I could in the first few hours before I heard a knock on the room’s door. Sera stirred at the sound, but fortunately, she didn’t wake.

Vanniv stood up, frowned, and made a gesture for me to get ready. I stood and put a hand on the hilt of Selys-Lyann while Vanniv walked to the door and opened it.

We found a somewhat disheveled Warren Constantine wearing a nightgown and carrying a candlestick behind the door. He glanced upward at Vanniv, blinked, and said, “Oh. Hello.”

“Constantine, I take it?” Vanniv asked.

The older man nodded, looking tired. “May I speak with Master Cadence in private for a moment? I believe I owe him an apology and a bit of an explanation.”

Vanniv looked askance at me. I shifted my hand away from my sword, then nodded and stood. “Sure.”

“Come, then.” Warren gestured toward the stairway outside of the chamber.

I still felt a little nervous about going out by myself, but at least Vanniv knew where I was going.

“If you aren’t back in an hour, I’m waking Sera,” Vanniv said in a tone that allowed for no argument.

me.

“Understood.” I nodded, exited the room, and closed the door behind“Thank you.” Warren nodded, sighed, and began to walk up the stairs. He led me upward. And upward. And upward.

Finally, we reached the top of the stairway. It terminated at a softlyglowing platform.

“A teleporter?” I asked. “Where does this go?”

“Several places within the tower, but we’re heading to the roof. I find it easier to think up there.” He stepped onto the platform, tapped his staff against the floor, and said, “rooftop.”

Then he vanished.

I hesitated for a moment, then followed. In a blur of now-familiar movement, I found myself elsewhere.

And, for the first time, I stood above the clouds.

I stood on a circular platform high above the world. Gleaming pillars stood on each side of the circle, bathing the platform in soft light. Each pillar held a single, glimmering crystal of a different color. Each was inscribed with strange and unfamiliar runes.

A frigid breeze danced across my skin, but I barely noticed. I only had eyes for the stars.

There were thousands of them glimmering above us — tens of thousands. Uncountable legions. I’d never seen anything like it. The moon shimmered brightly and full, but even its glory could not distract me from the light of those distant motes of incandescent light.

“It’s…”

“Beautiful, isn’t it?” Warren sighed deeply, gazing upward. “It… reminds me of something we lost along ago.”

“Lost?” I asked. “…Do you mean older magic?”

He nodded without looking toward me. “Once, we were each bound to those beautiful motes. They filled us with potential beyond imagining. And I…once, I had a deeper tie to them. That may be a story for another time.”

I raised an eyebrow. “I knew stars were related to dominion sorcery, but I understand that had some disadvantages.”

“You know more than most, then. Many of our people have forgotten the old magic entirely. It is by their design. We have been thoroughly deceived.”

“Their design…? You mean the visages?”

Warren nodded slowly. “Indeed. And their vaunted goddess herself.” “Do…you know why? Is it simply a matter of controlling who hasmagic to their advantage?”

Warren shook his head. “No. I think that, at first, attunements were made for good reasons. Improved control. Improved efficiency. Fewer costs to the body. Fixing problems of birth. Broader distribution. The severance of the stars, however…that was, perhaps, more out of fear. Even now, there is much I do not know, and I care not to speculate on it with you at this moment. My lucidity already fades.” He gazed down. “There is so much I wish I could have taught you. So much that I wish I could share with the world as a whole.”

“What’s happening to you? Mental mana overuse?”

He flinched. “That, yes, but it only exacerbates a personal problem. Like my mother before me, I was born with a destiny bound to those brilliant flares in the sky above us. And like my mother, I was severed from it by the goddess’ power, and at great personal cost.” His hands tightened. “That is no matter for you to concern yourself with. It is a personal affair.”

I was intensely curious what he was talking about, but I decided not to push. “What did you want to talk to me about, then?”

“The future.” He looked downward, turning to face me directly for the first time. “I do not know you, Corin Cadence, but I have heard of your deeds. I know that you stand at a focal point of events that have come before us and those that are yet to come. I see you there,” he pointed sharply upward, toward the star-lit sky, “but I cannot yet see with any certainty the path you may take. And, to ensure the preservation of that which is dear to me, I must hope to help guide your path.”

“That’s…please don’t say you’re talking about some sort of prophecy.” “Oh, goddess within us, no.” He laughed. “Prophecies are generallyutter nonsense. What I mean is that I have a method of divination magic that draws upon the constellations. It is vague at best, and I lack my mother’s talent for it, but I can glean a smattering of valuable information from it. You would lack the specific dominion to learn it, or else I would teach it to you.”

“Oh.” That made a bit more sense, at least. “And this sees me…being important?”

“Important to my own personal interests, if not necessarily on the grander scale of things. You are the newest among the Arbiters, and this is no small thing. Should you survive, you will have the ability to influence the visages themselves — and with that, the turning of the world. Already, I see that your path has brushed against two of the brightest stars, and it will come to more yet if you live.”

“And what is it exactly that you expect me to do?”

“Expect?” He nodded. “I expect you to pursue the path your brother has chosen for you. That is not, however, the only road before you.”

I frowned. “What do you know about my brother?”

“He is a fool.” Warren grimaced. “But perhaps that is better than a coward, like myself. His goals are worthy, but he has already tipped his hand too far. His chances of victory are slight, and any success will come at great cost.”

I grimaced. “All the more reason I should help him. And if you know that, presumably you know that I came to ask you for your help as well.”

“I suspected as much.” His shoulders slumped. “Once again, too much is expected of me. I cannot be the man your brother seeks.”

“And because of that, you won’t try to help at all?”

Warren looked away. “My own path begins and ends with failure. It would be best not to merge it with your own.”

“That’s kind of vague and unhelpful, you know.”

Warren continued to look away. “I am sorry. I have hidden for so long that I have little talent for openness. I will say this much, however: I will help you, personally, Corin, if you succeed at your task tomorrow. I will not commit to doing anything for your brother, but at the least, I can try to pass on a bit of what I know.”

“What’s the significance of this power source? Why is it so important?” “…As I said, I am a coward. The crystal I seek will allow me tocontinue to hide.”

I processed that. “From the visages? Is that what this is about? Your tower…it prevents them from watching you?”

“The visages, yes. And others. I must continue remain hidden while I continue my one last, greatest work.”

“Which is…?”

He turned back toward me, then tapped the tower beneath him. “This.”

I paused, considering. “Your artificial spire. What’s the end goal with that? You indicated it wasn’t just for distributing your own attunements.”

“It is not, though that may be a worthy goal. Perhaps if I had the spark of youth, I would still plan to use it for that purpose. As it is, however, I have a different cause.” He paused, looking upward. “I want to see her. To talk to her. To understand why.”

“You…” I froze, ideas swirling in my head. “The tops of the spires are used to reach the goddess. You think that if you build a tower high enough, you can reach the divine lands themselves?”

“I do not think. I know. I have seen them. I have seen the kingdoms of the sky — and they rejected me, once. Or, rather, the visages did. If those shadows of her divine majesty will not allow me in her presence, then, well…” His hands clenched into fists. “I will find my own way into the heavens above and find my way to her side myself.”

“Will…that even accomplish anything? What if she isn’t even there?”

Warren smiled. “A good question, and one I have pondered myself many times. What if Selys is dead? What if she never existed? What if she is shackled under the control of the visages, or the tyrant himself? Perhaps in those cases, I would be wasting my life, save for one thing — if I reach her kingdom, I would know. I would know why the goddess has been silent for so very, very long.”

“Is that truly the important thing, when there is so much work to be done here?” I walked to the side of the tower, shivering briefly against the cold as I waved my hand out above the Unclaimed Lands. Even in the night, I could see hundreds of miles from our high vantage point, maybe thousands.

There was so much out there — such a wide and beautiful world. I saw the shores of Lake Selden to the north, the wide forests to the south, and… was that a small settlement? I could see tiny buildings in the distance, perhaps the much-vaunted expedition that Keras and Lars had spoken of. I was pretty sure Derek had been there, too, during his visit to the Seventh Spire.

“You are correct, of course. There are more relevant ways I could be using my knowledge and abilities. I am, alas, not capable of them. Not with the questions burning in my ever-fading mind.”

I turned toward him, feeling a sudden sense of loss. “You…is there no treatment for what you’re going through? If it’s not just about the overuse of mana, then…”

“There is no solution I know of that would allow me to remain myself. I have, of course, explored many options. Perhaps I will find one in time. Perhaps the goddess herself will offer my salvation.” He paused, then shook his head. “But I am not hopeful. I can only wish that enough of me remains to demand the answers I seek if I reach my goal.”

“…And if I help you hide, that will slow your decline?”

“Yes.” He nodded firmly. “It will both enable me to have more time to pursue the goddess. And, perhaps more to your interests, it will allow me to host an event of political import. That will, perhaps, be my last great gesture of significance.”

“An event?” I asked.

“The Emerald Council. A meeting of minds between the most powerful of humanity. If my tower is properly secured against the gazes of outsiders, I will summon the council here next year. There, we will discuss the affairs of the world. This, I believe, may be of interest to you.”

I nodded fervently. “Is this something that has occurred before?”

“Yes, but infrequently, and not since my crystal was taken. Should you help me, I will ensure you are given an invitation to attend the event, in spite of your attunement level. You will be given leave to speak to the council and plead your brother’s case — or your own.”

“You make it sound as if you think there’s something distinct from Tristan’s vision I should be pursuing.”

Warren shrugged. “Perhaps. Perhaps not. I can see so little. Less, now, than before. But I know this much, if you will permit me to speak brazenly. You must learn to live outside of your brother’s shadow. Only then will you find the fullness of your power.”

“Still super vague, but I’ll take it into consideration. Thank you.” “I…tire now. I believe we should both get some rest.” Warren put ahand over his eyes. “I am glad you came here, Corin Cadence. I am pleased to have met you, regardless of what happens.”

“I…feel the same way. Thank you, Master Constantine.”

The older man nodded, then wearily walked back to the center of the rooftop and tapped his staff against the floor again. “Inside.”

The floor flashed. We reappeared inside the building.

And as I walked back to the room to find Vanniv waiting, I felt a chill greater than the wind from the rooftop within me. The deep, unabating cold of experiencing loss.

***The rest of my night went quickly. Vanniv ensured I was safe, then we went back to reading, but I found little ability to concentrate.

I still had so many questions for Constantine…and I knew that it was very likely I would never get satisfactory answers.

Perhaps that was why I could understand him so very well.

His quest to seek the land beyond the sky was what most would call a fool’s errand — arrogant and brimming with hubris. But, on a visceral level, I absolutely understood it.

And I wanted to help. Help more than I possibly could hope to with the little magic at my disposal.

I woke Sera at the designated time, then crawled into my own bed. It was comfortable, but it took me ages to sleep.

My mind was still swimming with ideas and sorrow.

I woke the next morning still keenly feeling a sense of disappointment, but I still dragged myself out of bed and prepared for my trip to the shrine. Sera was already up, and together, we left the room to head downstairs. We weren’t given any instructions, but that seemed the simplest way to get the tower owner’s attention.

Warren was nowhere to be found. Instead, we found Len waiting, with a table set for breakfast. We discussed the maters of the day over food.

“This shrine should be one of the safest ones, provided that you are cautious,” Len explained.

“Why doesn’t he just go there himself, then?”

“He already did, quite some time ago, when he was…in a better frame of mind. But after completing any specific shrine, you need to wait several years before you can take the trials and earn another boon. Excepting the elemental temples, of course. Those work differently than standard crystal shrines.”

That made sense. Keras had said something similar about the Spirit Gateway Crystal test’s limitations.

…I should ask Len if she can take me there to do those trials at some point. If she was created there, teleporting back there should be comparatively easy, unless she requires some sort of anchor…“You look distracted. Are you nervous?” Len asked.

“No. I mean, yes, but that’s not the issue. My mind just…has a tendency to wander at times, sorry.”

I was still thinking about the last evening and the implications of Warren’s statements. What could I do? How could I help?Why did I want so badly to help someone I had just met?“I understand all too well.” Len smiled warmly at me. “Now, I can transport you to the shrine, but I won’t be able to accompany you inside. This is a solo test, and beyond that, the crystals won’t let me take their challenges.”

“Because you’re not human?”

She shook her head. “Not precisely. More because of the precise circumstances of my birth. I’m effectively considered part of the crystal shrine’s…staff, we could call it? In human terms, taking the tests would be something of a conflict of interest.”

“Ah. Understood.” I nodded. “Couldn’t Constantine get a more experienced adventurer to do this for him?”

“Yes, of course. But he’s not presently willing to leave the spire, which means he’ll take whoever I offer him.”

“Why not just ask Keras?”

Len winced. “It’s…there are several reasons. Not the least of which is that he’s been through this shrine before, and thus the time limitation is in place. More importantly…I am in no position to ask him for a favor. Owing that man two life debts is more than sufficient.”

“Two?” I blinked.

“My brother’s life, as well as my own.” “Dyson, right?” Sera asked her.

Len smiled. “He’s a wonderful brother. As someone with a sibling yourself, I’m sure you understand how important that is.”

“Two siblings,” I corrected instinctively, surprising myself in the aftermath. Apparently, I’d internalized Sera being my actual sister at some point without even realizing it.

“I have two as well.” Len replied fondly. “Or, rather, the true Lydia did— but I suppose I only have one analogous to myself, if that makes sense.” She laughed. “Families are complicated, aren’t they?”

“I know what you mean.” I grinned.

“What precisely do you get out of all this?” Sera gave Len a suspicious look. “Introducing us, facilitating us taking this challenge, all that?”

“I have a long-term interest in ensuring that both of you have a good rapport with Warren and as much personal knowledge and power as possible.”

“…Why?” I asked.

“I believe there will be a point in the near future in which your abilities will prove necessary on a wide scale.”

“That’s a bit evasive,” Sera noted.

“It’s what I’m prepared to tell you for the time being. Worry not, my plans are reminiscent of your brother’s, and I do not anticipate any conflict. If I felt that it would be useful, I would consider joining him directly, but currently the tether of such an alliance would be a disadvantage to us both.”

I narrowed my eyes. “How much of my brother’s plans are you aware of, exactly?”

Len smiled brightly. “Shrine first, then we can discuss all that if time and circumstances permit it.”

“I don’t do well with secrets like these. Warren may have an excuse, but you are rapidly running out of them,” Sera pointed out.

“Tell you what, Miss Cadence. While Corin takes his test in the shrine, I’ll explain things to you. Then when he finishes, you can head inside if you choose to. Would that be acceptable?”

“Not really?” Sera shook her head. “Those seem like divide and conquer tactics. You can just tell us both now, can’t you?”

Len reached up and adjusted her glasses. “I’ll say a bit now. Warren is running short on time. It is in my best interest to get you inside that shrine to resolve his problems as quickly as physically possible. As for your brother, I’m aware of all of the Whisper factions in play, as well as their general goals. I’m also aware that you are likely here to recruit Warren to join that so-called ‘Ascension’ faction. It probably will not work, because Warren lacks the lucidity and trust to have that sort of association right now. Does that sufficiently answer your questions for the time being?”

That seemed pretty consistent with what Warren himself had said, albeit in a much more direct fashion.

“It’s a start.” Sera folded her arms. “But if Warren won’t join us, we may very well be wasting our time.”

“A favor from Warren will still be quite significant, either to you or to your brother’s cause. Moreover, even if Warren does not choose to join your faction, I believe that in a less stressful state he would be able to teach Corin to do some of what your brother needs from Warren.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. “Meaning how to make artificial attunements?”

“I sincerely doubt he could teach you everything necessary to create them in the few days you have remaining if you intend to return to school, but some relevant bits, yes. Perhaps more urgently, he can teach you more about attunement and brand modification.”

Brand modification. The expression hit me like a speeding train. “Wait.

Meaning…enough to disable a brand by one of the visages?”

“Perhaps.” Len tilted her head toward me. “I admit, I am not an expert in such matters, but it is not strictly impossible. And I believe it would be a subject that would be of personal interest, would it not?”

I narrowed my eyes. “It would be.”

“Good, good. Now, shall we head to the shrine?”

I glanced at Sera, then back to Len. “Very well. Let’s do this.”

***After a few more moments of talk, we confirmed that I would do my challenge first, then report what I’d learned to Sera and we could decide after that if she wanted to take the challenges of the shrine herself.

With that decided, Sera decided to stay behind in the tower and continue studying. Len agreed to come back in a bit to introduce her to some of the tower’s summons and fill her in on a bit more of her own political leanings. I knew, of course, that Sera would try to make a few new contracts while I was gone.

After dropping me off, Len would check back at the shrine area every hour or so, then teleport me back to the tower when needed.

Neither Sera nor I were entirely convinced that splitting up was a good idea, but the temptations of going through a sword shrine — as well as the potential rewards for completing one — seemed worth the risks.

It only took a few minutes for Len to gather up a pair of large crystals, close her eyes, then focus on one to cast her teleportation spell. The abrupt change of scenery was something I was unsure if I’d ever get used to, but I didn’t mind being deposited back out in the open air.

The sun blazed brightly in a cloudless sky over the Unclaimed Lands. I stood in the midst of a circular grove of trees with strange purple grass. In the center of the clearing was a titanic stone doorway, seemingly attached to nothing.

Len walked over to the door, knocked once, and whispered something to the stone. The door slowly opened, displaying a featureless white void. She waved both hands toward the open doorway. “All yours. Ordinarily, I’d offer to put a protection spell on you beforehand, but the entry will strip active spell effects.”

“Appreciate the thought regardless.” I had multiple shield sigils to protect me, anyway, and I wasn’t sure a barrier spell would work properly with them in place. I took a deep breath, shifted my left hand to hold Selys- Lyann’s scabbard in place, then stepped through the doorway.

