CHAPTER XVII – MAKING HASTE

Sera stepped in, giving the woman a quizzical look. “Lydia Hastings, I presume?”

The woman gave us a formal bow. “You’re correct. Lydia Hastings it is.

Or Scryer, if you prefer.”

Mara’s eyes widened at that. “Lydia? You’re the Lydia?”

Lydia gave her a smile. “I don’t know about that, Miss Callahan. But I am a Lydia, certainly.” She turned back to Sera, giving her a nod. “I see you’ve heard of me. Unusual, but within expectations for an Invoker.”

Sera gave Lydia a curious look. “How do you know about that?”

Lydia clasped her hands together in front of her. “I make it my business to know about the people I’m planning to deal with, the people that they’re connected to, and the people that they are connected to. I regret that I did not study you further, Miss Cadence. Your attunement is a fascinating subject, and your possession of a certain sword intriguing.”

“You can study me later, if you’d like. But for the moment, why are you here?”

“At my home?” Lydia raised an eyebrow. “What an unusual question.” “You’re aware of what I mean.” Sera shook her head. “You’re not anative to this continent, and Ker—”

Lydia raised a hand. “Let’s not discuss him right now, or anything in regards to my homeland. Not enough security, I’m afraid. Too close to the spire.”

“Your house is heavily enchanted,” I waved at it. “Can we just come inside?”

“Forgive me for my lack of decorum. Please, come inside.” She stepped back, gestured to the doorway, and led us inside. She closed the door behind us, relocked it, and whispered something as she traced a symbol on the wall. “I’m afraid I will still have to avoid certain subjects, even here. My protections are significant, but not sufficient. Especially in the presence of an Arbiter.”

“If you’re aware of my attunement, then you should know why I’m here.” I noted.

“Yes, quite. You’ve come to the right place, and I’ll be more than happy to assist with a meeting.”

That was better than I’d expected. “So…what’s the catch?”

Lydia smiled. “There is always a catch with these things, isn’t there?” She put her hands on the table. “I’m afraid the man you’re seeking is far from here, and I can’t transport all of you.”

Ah, there it goes.

“Could you just tell us where he’s located?” I asked. Lydia shook her head. “I’m afraid not. Tea?”

“Yes, please.”

She poured us tea. Sera, probably assuming everything was poison, didn’t drink any.

The tea was good. It probably wasn’t poisoned.

“What’s the complication?” Sera asked. “Or is this just you maintaining your leverage?”

Lydia sipped her own tea. “A bit of both, Miss Cadence, but mostly the former. The man you’re seeking is in hiding. There’s a high probability we are being observed, even now. I cannot openly state his location, and my means of getting us there cannot bring more than one person.”

“With respect, that’s entirely too little for us to go on.” Sera shook her head. “You’re going to have to give us more.”

Lydia paused. “What sort of information would assist in making your decision?”

I considered. “Well, earlier, you said you were ‘a Lydia’. To start with,which Lydia are you? The original or a copy?” I asked.

She reached up, adjusting her glasses. “Ah, now that is a fascinating question. If I was her…well, there would be philosophical questions regardless of which Lydia you were speaking to. But based on your phrasing, I’ll presume that a certain masked swordsman is your information source. Is that correct?”

“Yes.” I nodded. “He told me about the Spirit Gateway—”

“Not here.” She shook her head. “I believe I understand now, and I can adequately answer your question. I am that Lydia. If it assists you in distinguishing between our versions, you may refer to me as ‘Len’.”

“Len?”

“It’s short for ‘Lydia emulation’. I found it appropriate.” She gave a little smile, like she was appreciating a personal joke.

“Then you…wait, how are you out here?” Patrick asked.

“A question for another place and another time, I’m afraid.” Len responded. “It’s a bit of a tale.”

Sera frowned at me. “As nice as it is to know which Lydia we’re talking to, I don’t think it clarifies matters much, Corin.”

I raised a hand. “No, it does. Well, maybe. Is this matter related to the crystals out in the Unclaimed Lands?”

Len smiled broadly. “It is, at least in part.”

My mind swam with possibilities. I knew that the crystals in the Unclaimed Lands were primordial sources of power, far predating the goddess coming to Kaldwyn. The temples that the Prime Crystals resided within were the templates used for the creation of the spires themselves.

If this was a chance to learn more about them, it wasn’t an opportunity I wanted to miss…but it also wasn’t exactly an ideal time to leave. I still had a specific task to accomplish within the Arbiter’s Gate. “Does this need to be immediate?”

“Not strictly, but there would be significant benefits to going immediately. As it happens, I’m currently here to look for assistance with a task on behalf of the man you’re seeking. If you choose to be the one to help, there would be advantages. Naturally, I cannot tell you all the details here due to security risks.”

“Naturally,” Sera spat with a hint of venom. “Can’t anyone just be direct with us?”

“I’m afraid that directness is a luxury scarcely available to those of us with resourceful enemies, Miss Cadence. For what it’s worth, however, you have my sympathies. Your frustrations echo those I have experienced on numerous occasions myself.”

“Could we just go a more secure location to talk?” Patrick suggested. “Somewhere further away from the spire?”

“I’m afraid that the security measures any of us would be capable of implementing anywhere in Caelford would be woefully insufficient. This is, in part, why I wish to travel immediately: I can take Master Cadence to a place where we might speak without prying eyes and ears.”

Sera’s expression darkened. “What assurances can you give us that Corin would be safe if he agrees to go with you?”

“Very few, I’m afraid, beyond my word. I hope that your awareness of my identity and nature will be sufficient.” Len seemed to shrink a bit.

“When you say ‘take Corin’, you mean teleportation?” Sera asked. “That’s correct, Miss Cadence.”

Sera frowned. “Teleportation can be tracked. How is that more secure?” “An excellent question.” Len nodded. “Two things. One, tracking a teleportation spell generally requires physically going to the location of origin. This house is better shielded against physical intrusion than it is against scrying, making that more difficult for anyone who wishes to follow us. Second, our destination is considerably more secure. Once we reach that point,	tracking	us	will	be	tremendously	difficult,	and	we	will	takeprecautions to baffle tracking along the way.”

Sera seemed to consider that, then replied simply, “Acceptable answer.” “Thank you.” Len tipped her head.

Sera turned to me. “That said, this seems like a terrible idea, Corin.” “Thank you retracted,” Len noted.

“I think you should refuse,” Sera concluded. “There are too many unknown elements.”

I turned back to Len. “What else can you tell me?”

“I can offer you my personal assurance that this visit will take you to the person you’re seeking and give you an opportunity to get in his good graces. You will likely be safe.” She frowned. “Unless you aggravate him, which I find unlikely, but regrettably plausible.”

“Why is that?”

“The man you’re looking for has certain…difficulties in communication at times. It would be unkind to say much more than that. Rest assured that I will do my best to smooth over any difficulties you encounter, however.”

“That’s woefully insufficient.” I shook my head. “I can’t even verify that you are who you say you are.”

“Maybe we could go back in the spire and message Keras?” Mara suggested. “He could verify her identity, yeah?”

Len winced at the sound of Keras’ name. “I’d truly prefer not to inconvenience…that man… while he is in the midst of his climb. I alreadyowe him a great deal, and…he doesn’t know I’m here. I’m concerned that if he knew, he would be distracted at best, if not leave the spire entirely.”

“Why?” I asked.

“He feels a degree of responsibility toward me, given the reasons for my existence. If you’re familiar with who I am, I believe that explanation may be sufficient?”

I nodded slowly. Most of you already know this, but I suppose I should provide a brief bit of context for those that don’t.

Lydia Hastings was Keras’ commanding officer back in his homeland, as well as one of his closest personal friends. When he first came to Kaldwyn, he went through one of the shrines in the Unclaimed Lands. In that shrine, he faced several challenges. One of them involved fighting a copy of Lydia.

Keras being Keras, he found a way to not only defeat her, but keep the copy alive — apparently indefinitely. When he’d first told the story, I’d imagined she’d be stuck inside the shrine where she’d been created, much like a spire-created summoned monster. If what Len was saying was accurate, she’d somehow gotten out.

That had some wider implications about what was possible for creatures like her in general, but it wasn’t quite the right time for me to sit around and ponder them. Apparently, Sera had already considered them in greater detail than I had, considering what she’d managed with Emery. Their situations were extremely similar.

“C’mon, guys. It’s Lydia.” Mara jerked a thumb in the strange woman’s direction. “You heard Keras talk about her. We know she’s not the enemy here.”

I gave Mara a raised eyebrow. “She tried to kill Keras virtually immediately after they met.”

Len paled and blushed, raising both hands in a defensive gesture. “In my defense, I was under the impression he had killed everyone I cared about. That was the structure of the test he was given: it was meant to be one of his nightmares.”

“Fair. But it’s an example of something that could be a problem — you’re mentally compromised.”

Len nodded slowly. “An interesting way of putting things. It’s really more that the starting conditions of my creation provided me with invalidinformation, which I’ve taken years to attempt to rectify as fully as possible. That being said, you’re not entirely wrong — everyone who exists is mentally compromised. We all accumulate false information over time, internalize it, and are influenced by it, consciously or otherwise. We are, in part, a product of these biases, as well as all other information we gather in our lifetimes.”

“While this is a fascinating philosophical discussion,” Sera cut in, “the more urgent issue is that you’re trying to abscond with my brother alone, for reasons you’ve been extraordinarily unclear about. You’re going to have to give us something more than platitudes and pedantry if you want there to be any chance for us to drop what we’re doing and help you.”

Len made some sort of gesture with two fingers that I assumed was some kind of Mythralian salute or something. “Very well, I acknowledge your point. Sadly, there is no simple way for you to verify my claims. While you could return to the spire and speak to our mutual acquaintance about my nature and trustworthiness, I would prefer not to inconvenience him any further. As you are no doubt aware, I already inconvenienced him significantly simply by existing.”

“That’s…not a very healthy way to look at your own existence.” Sera frowned.

“Healthy or not, it’s my perspective.” Len gave Sera a smile that looked…resigned. Exhausted. “If he had not chosen to spare me, he could have taken something of far greater value from that shrine. For his sacrifice, I already owe him two life debts — for myself, and for my brother. I cannot hope to repay such a thing, but I can tell you this much: I am aware that you are under his protection. Taking any action against you would be a breach of his trust and that…that would be unthinkable to me. Assisting you in this endeavor, however, may be some small way of beginning to help repay him.”

So far as I could tell, Len sounded genuine with that statement, and I felt a pang of sympathy for her.

What would it be like to live knowing that your continued existence was owed so fully to someone else?Simply saving someone’s life in battle was significant enough, but what Keras had done was an order of magnitude beyond that: he’d given something valuable up in order to help her with no expectation of reward.

Even seeing Len standing in front of me, I wasn’t sure if I could have made that same choice…or if it was the right one.

“You seem sincere enough,” Sera noted, “but words are cheap. Bind.”

There was a flash as Sera’s spell manifested, then a flickering barrier manifested in place around Len, vanishing a moment later.

Len’s lips twitched upward in amusement. “Can’t say someone has tried that on me before. An interesting tactic, but unfortunately, not a viable one. While I would have consented to lower my Comprehensive Barrier for you to cast the spell on me, it still would have not worked. I am not of Selys’ creation, nor have I been altered by her. Your summoning contracts and bindings cannot work on me. Not without being adapted for that purpose, at any rate.”

That was an interesting statement, if true. Sera shrugged. “Prove it.”

Len shrugged a shoulder. “Very well. Dismiss Comprehensive Barrier.” “Bind.”

There was a flash of light, then…Sera winced. “She’s right. It didn’t take. Didn’t work the way it would like if I tried it on a human, either, though.”

Len snapped her fingers and a barrier reappeared around her. “If that’s all…”

“It’s not.” Sera shook her head. “Researcher, I summon you.”

Researcher appeared at her side. “Greetings, Summoner. How may I assist…oh!” Her eyes widened at the sight of Len. “Oh, hello!” She reached out with a hand immediately. “Can I touch you?”

Len laughed and stretched out a hand. “A knowledge elemental?Curious. Go ahead.”

Researcher gave a gleeful laugh and grabbed Len’s hand. “Oh! Oh! A corporealized crystal spirit! You’re so rare! What are you even doing out here?”

Len raised her other hand to her lips in a quieting gesture. “Sssh. Can’t discuss everything right here.”

“Of course, of course.” Researcher seemed to process everyone staring at her. She took a step back, cleared her throat, and turned toward Sera. “Ahem, sorry. Summoner…did you, uh, require assistance?”

“You’ve already done a portion of it.” Sera gestured toward Len. “I needed you to verify her nature. Can you discern her magic types?”

“Absolutely. If you’ll allow me?” Len nodded. “Go ahead.”

Researcher grabbed Len’s hand again. “Let’s see…uh, spirit. Life, mental, transference, light...clarity? That’s an odd one. Travel…”

“Good.” Sera nodded. “Can you verify some of her statements for us?” Researcher shook her head. “In what way?”

“If you mean a truth detection spell, those don’t really work,” Len shook her head. “I’ve faked a number of them, believe me.”

“Not really giving us a great deal of confidence when you say that,” Sera retorted.

Len shrugged. “Better to be up front about this sort of thing. Elemental, I trust you concur?”

“Hm?” Researcher blinked distractedly. “Oh, uh, yes. Can’t discern truth from lies. Not exactly. I can read physical tells with a high degree of accuracy, but a highly sophisticated spirit like…”

“Len,” Len interjected helpfully.

“Len,” Researcher tried, seeming to feel the name out as she spoke, “could easily have misleading or entirely missing physical tells.”

Sera groaned. “Okay. If she was to transport Corin somewhere, would you be able to track the spell’s destination?”

“Potentially. It depends on the range.”

“Somewhere in the Unclaimed Lands?” Sera speculated aloud. Len tipped her head in acknowledgement of Sera’s supposition.

Researcher shook her head vehemently. “No, no. I could…go with, though? Please?”

“I wish I could take you.” Len brushed Researcher’s cheek with a hand. “You’re quite a fascinating creature.”

“Likewise.” Researcher whispered.

“Sadly, my mana supply is too limited to transport more than just Corin and myself to the destination in a timely fashion.”

“What about taking an extra day to take multiple of us?” I asked. “Theoretically possible, but it would require camping in the middle ofthe Unclaimed Lands on the way. There aren’t really any safe spots to do that.”

I nodded slowly. “What if I recharged your mana part-way with my own?”

Len seemed to ponder that. “How much do you have available?”

My mind immediately shot to my mana watch. I needed it to give her an accurate number. But…I could still estimate, at least. “Close to three hundred on my own.”

“Quite impressive for your age, but unfortunately…”

I raised a hand. “Not done. I also have several items I can drain for more mana. Hold on.” I stuck my hand in my bag.

“Retrieve: Gray mana battery.”

“Retrieve…” Len’s eyes widened. “You have Wrynn’s box?” “Uh…” I froze. “…Maybe?”

“Hold on, give it here.” She stepped away from a disappointed Researcher to wave at me frantically.

“…No?” I replied uneasily.

Len gestured wildly at my bag and the box within it. “Do you know what that thing is capable of? We could summon Wrynn!”

I winced. “It isn’t charged.”

“…Oh.” Her shoulders slumped. “Apologies, I got excited. But wait, why haven’t you just recharged it? You’re an Arbiter.”

“Different type of runes. They’re not from around here, so I didn’t want to risk breaking them.”

Len blinked. “Oh. Oh. You don’t know how to interact with Artinian or Mythralian items. Of course.” She clapped her hands together. “Easily solved. Agree to come with me, and I’ll teach you how to recharge the box.”

I hesitated.

That was sorely tempting, but recharging the box and summoning Wrynn actually meant that I’d probably lose access to the item sooner. I didn’t want to admit that, though. “I’ll…take that into consideration.”

She must have noted my hesitation. “I’d be willing to teach you a bit about the how the runes work in general. Not enough to duplicate it — you’d need Artinian spirit arts to copy it completely — but useful theory.”

That was almost worth losing the box earlier, but it still didn’t resolve the core problem. “I’ll take you up on that if I decide to go. Now, I havesome items here that I could drain in order to potentially give you back more mana. A few hundred more, at least.”

“Of what variety?”

“Mostly gray, some transference.”

“Hm.” She paused, seemingly doing some mental calculations. “How quickly do the items recharge?”

“An hour, under ideal conditions, but in the Unclaimed Lands…”

“Oh, they’re ambient recharge based? Interesting. Not good for our situation, but a good approach for spires. Hm.” She nodded. “Okay. There’s a way we might be able to bring one more person, but it takes some small risks.”

“Define small risks.” Sera folded her arms.

“I teleport us part way through the Unclaimed Lands to one of the sword shrines. Corin uses his mana and the batteries to recharge me. We wait for a few hours, and Corin recharges me as many times as necessary to give me twenty-four hundred additional mana. With that, I would be able to take two people with me for the rest of the journey. Corin and one other.”

“And the risk is that the shrine may be dangerous?” Sera asked.

“It’s more that the area outside the shrine may be dangerous,” Len replied. “A number of factions have set up camps outside some of the shrines. I know some that were unoccupied outside last time I visited, but it’s been months. If, for example, the Tails of Orochi decided to make camp outside the shrine…”

“Yeah, that’d be bad.” I frowned. “Could you teleport us away quickly if we ran into anyone?”

“I could save enough mana for an emergency, or you could refresh my mana as much as possible before the last teleport jump to the shrine. That might be enough to get away in an emergency, it might not. I’m willing to take the risk of encountering them if you are insistent upon bringing someone else along. Just be aware that this does introduce an extra layer of risk in exchange for the security of bringing a companion.”

“Can we have a moment to discuss it?” I asked. “Of course.” Len nodded.

“In private?”

“Ah. Yes, forgive me.” Len bowed her head. “I’ll give you a bit of space.”

Len wandered off a short distance. Researcher glanced from-side-to- side, then surreptitiously followed Len a few moments later.

The rest of us formed a circle to talk. “Unless anyone has a compelling reason to refuse, I think I’m going.” I noted.

“Obviously.” Sera jerked a thumb at Len. “She hooked you perfectly. Too perfectly. Let’s get this out of the way — one of us is going with you. It’s just a question of which.”

I frowned. “Not sure I agree. Len seems like she’s probably who she says she is, and if she is, stopping at the shrine may add more danger than an extra body would remove.”

“How powerful do you think she is?” Sera asked me.

I activated Detect Aura and glanced aura. It showed precisely nothing. I turned back to Sera. “Detect Aura doesn’t get anything. She’s either suppressing heavily or just not an attuned. Probably the latter: presuming her story has any truth to it, she’d be classified as a non-spire monster, and we know those don’t generally have shrouds. That makes it hard to evaluate her threat level.”

Sera nodded. “About what I expected. Let’s think of it this way, then. Threat level wise, she was dangerous to Keras when he first arrived on the continent. He estimated himself as somewhere in the Citrine range. Even assuming she hasn’t improved at all over the last however many years it’s been — which I find unlikely — she’s probably around Citrine. On the off chance she means to do something you wouldn’t like, you can’t handle her alone. Two against one against a Citrine would be tremendously dangerous for us, but not impossible.”

“Depends on the Citrine, but fair.”

“Beyond that, she’s taking you to meet with someone else, and that someone might be hostile even if she isn’t. And even if neither of them means you harm, there’s still all the threats of the Unclaimed Lands…and, moreover, politics. If you’re being sent to do diplomatic work on your own, well, that’s its own risk.”

I rolled my eyes. “Thanks, Sera. Always appreciate your love and trust.” “Hey, just being honest. We all know you don’t like dealing withpolitics.”

“Got a point there,” Patrick chimed in. “For an Arbiter, you’re not really much for, well, arbiting.”

“Think the word yer lookin’ for is arbitration,” Mara corrected. “Right, that.”

I sighed. “Okay. So, fine. Presuming I agree to bring one of you, any volunteers?”

“I’m your retainer. It’s my responsibility to accompany you into danger.” Patrick smiled. “And I wouldn’t mind seeing one of those sword shrines…maybe if we’ve got the time, I could even try the tests?”

“Possible, but we’re probably too weak for that.” I paused. “Except for Mara. At Sunstone, she’s probably got a decent shot.”

“Talked to Keras ‘bout that a bit. I think it depends on the shrine. Not all of ‘em are even all that dangerous. More puzzles, less fighting. Wouldn’t mind a jaunt out there, and I’d be glad to back you up if you need it.”

“That just leaves me, then.” Sera nodded. “I will, of course, go with you if that’s your preference. Combat wise, I’m frankly still the weakest option of us for the moment, especially after what I just did. I probably shouldn’t use mana for another day or so. But if there’s a sensitive political matter to handle, I believe I’d be the best equipped to handle it.”

I nodded slowly, considering.

We talked about the options for a little longer, weighing each option carefully.

Then finally, I made my choice, dramatically pointing my finger. “Sera, I choose you.”

“Good.”

I turned to the others. “I value you both, but honestly, I need the diplomatic help more than I need assistance in a fight right now.”

“Makes sense!” Patrick grinned. “Don’t worry, we’ll be fine here.

Maybe we’ll even take another jaunt into the tower?”

“Think I’m due a break.” Mara grimaced. “Those elixirs might not have hit me as hard as most, but I think they’re catchin’ up on me a bit.”

“Fair. Winter Festival, then?” “Winter Festival it is.” Mara grinned.

With that, Patrick turned back to me. “Just, uh, make sure Len can get you back here in time for us to take the train home?”

…I hadn’t considered that.

With the decisions made, I went back to Len. “Sera and I will both go with you.”

“Excellent choice.” Len clapped her hands together, then turned to Researcher. “Perhaps you can rejoin us once we reach our destination, then?”

“Oh, I would be delighted!” Researcher chimed. “Summoner, if you wouldn’t mind calling me once you get there?”

“We’ll have to see what this Mysterious Unclaimed Lands Entity out there wants first, but probably.” Sera gave Researcher a smile. “Just stick with these two until I call you, then.”

“Of course!” Researcher bowed her head gratefully.

“Quick check — can you get us back here after you’re done?” I asked Len.

“Yes, I can provide transportation back, although we would still need to stop mid-way to rest at a mana-rich locale. I could also potentially teleport you to a train station without needing to stop — the area we’re going to is closer to a railway than it is to Caelford.”

I nodded. “We can make that decision later. Patrick, Mara, please feel free to take the train that we’re scheduled for if you don’t hear from us. If we don’t meet you here, we’ll plan to meet you in Valia instead.”

“Understood.” Patrick nodded.

We spent a few more minutes to discuss logistics, then we got started. “You’ll need to hold my hands for the teleportation process,” Lenexplained. “It’s going to take several ‘jumps’. I have significant range, but nowhere near enough to get us all the way to our destination at once. After each jump, if the area looks clear, we’ll take a brief break to help recover from teleportation sickness. Are you ready?”

“Ready,” we confirmed.

We reached out and each took one of Len’s hands. It was easier for me to make contact when I initiated it, and I knew it was just for the purposes of a spell.

“Superior Teleportation,” Len spoke aloud.

Then Caelford faded away in a blur, and I found myself elsewhere.

***I’d pictured the Unclaimed Lands as being sort of a barren, desert region. Sparse brush, dry air, maybe some cacti or something.

To my credit, there were areas of the Unclaimed Lands like that — notably the blackened sands near the Fire Temple. But the area where weappeared was very, very different.

We found ourselves in the midst of a forest glade. The trees around us formed a perfect circle. We’d appeared on top of some kind of stone platform etched with foreign runes. A small crystal hovered in mid-air above the platform.

With the forest line being hundreds of feet away from us, I had a clear view of a perfectly clear blue sky above us. The air wasn’t dry in the slightest: it was, perhaps, the cleanest and purest air I’d ever breathed.

I might have appreciated the beauty of it more if I wasn’t immediately sick to my stomach. I’d been teleported on many occasions before, but never anywhere close to this distance.

With great effort, I kept myself from vomiting on the teleportation platform. As it was, I barely managed to wobble for a moment, then force myself into a sitting position. Sera hastily did the same.

“Apologies for the effects. It seems we’re clear here, so we can take a brief break.” Len sat down as well, apparently completely unbothered. She fished a flask of something out of her pack and offered it to us.

We both accepted. If we were taking the risk of having her teleport us somewhere, accepting a drink was relatively minor by comparison. I then took a swig, and passed it to Sera. “What is that…peppermint?”

“Helps with the stomach, I find.”

She was right: it did help, at least a little. “What is this place?” I asked. “An ancient continental gate.” Len smiled, patting the stone beneath us.

“Don’t get too excited. It’s long inactive. Ruined in a war thousands of years ago. It still functions as an anchor point for teleportation spells, however, especially when it has an active power source. Using places like this is both safer and more efficient than just teleporting to random spots.”

“But more likely for us to encounter others,” Sera noted.

“Yes.” Len acknowledged. “The Tails do know about a few of them, but not this far out. When we get further east, we’ll have to be more cautious.”

“What about the crystal?” I asked.

“One of my own mana crystals, currently functioning as that temporary power source I mentioned. I put one up every few months, replacing them as they run out of mana.”

“…I don’t suppose you’d be willing to make me something like that?”

“I’d consider it, but one on this scale is days of work. It would be a discussion for a future time.”

I nodded. “Could you use something like that crystal to get the gate itself operational, even temporarily?”

“I’ve been working on that for some time, but there’s simply too much damage right now. Many of the runes aren’t simply unpowered — they were obliterated, and I don’t have the knowledge necessary to reconstruct them. Yet.” She smiled. “Maybe someday, we’ll have a functional portal network across the entire continent. It’s a long-term project of mine, but keep it quiet. The major nations would be…displeased to know about the existence of such a portal network, and I’m not ready to have these sites defended, either physically or politically.”

We spent a bit longer discussing the politics behind such a gateway network while we had some water and food. I also wrote down the runes that were still visible on the gateway.

Then, we grudgingly stood back up, took Len’s hands again, and teleported to the next spot.

The next three teleports were to similar inactive gates, but in different areas. One was atop a mountainside, the next a pitch-black forest, and the final one a small island in the middle of a lake.

“We’ll need to stop for you to recharge my mana here,” Len explained. “The next jump will take us to one of the sword shrines, and we’ll need to be prepared to run immediately.”

I nodded. I used my Arbiter attunement to recharge her mana using both my own and the mana from each of my batteries. I kept a fraction of my mana for emergencies, but still managed to give her the amount she needed. Then, I pulled a flask of mana water out of the Jaden Box and drank it, hoping to accelerate my mana recovery.

We took about a half hour break, but by that point it was getting dark. Nightfall in the Unclaimed Lands had greater risks, so we chose to go ahead with the next teleportation without waiting for my mana to completely recharge. It made me mildly uncomfortable, but we’d be relying on Len’s mana to get us out regardless of my mana pool, so it didn’t matter all that much.

My hand trembled just a bit as we prepared for the jump to the shrine, and not from the overuse of mana.

“Superior Teleport.”

My mind lurched as we moved…And found ourselves completely alone outside of a titanic stone building.

A sword shrine. I’d love to get a better look at these someday. It’s a shame we have a specific task to deal with.

I scanned the area with Detect Aura just in case, but I found nothing.

My shoulders slumped in relief.

“I’ll scout the region a bit, just to make sure no one is nearby. Stay here and keep resting,” Len instructed us.

We rested. Sera summoned Vanniv for airborne surveillance, but he found no one anywhere close to nearby.

When Len returned, she rested with us, satisfied that the area was unoccupied.

During that time, I got a better look at the sword shrine. Or, at least, the entrance.

The sword shrine was a single-story stone structure built on the shores of a lake. The entire exterior was flat, uniform gray stone, unmarred by any signs of age. It looked like the entire thing had been carved out of a single gigantic block of stone, implying the structure had been formed with magic. The only thing disturbing the stone was the presence of twin doors made of solid, silvery metal. Each of the doors was etched with runes (which I wrote down, of course). Unlike the shrine Keras described, this one didn’t have any statues out front. It did, however, have a symbol of anupward-raised sword etched into the metal of each door.

The top of the building was slanted downward, toward the water’s edge, and I strongly suspected that implied the existence of more of the structure underground.

I processed that, then in a moment of shock, I realized something that may have been obvious. “Wait. Sword shrine. Lake. Is this one of Flowbreaker’s sword shrines?”

“It was, once.” Len gave me a sad smile. “Of course, the shrines themselves predate the sacred swords — but yes, this is a shrine one might have visited to earn Flowbreaker’s amulets, back when Flowbreaker was intact.”

I was suddenly much more interested. “What are the odds the amulet is still in there?”

“None.” Len shook her head. “They’re all out in the world now.” “Does that imply you know their locations?” Sera asked.

“Indeed, it does. Ah, your interest is due to Selys-Lyann, yes?” Len gestured at the sword at my hip. “I’ve heard speculation that the swords are the same, or otherwise related. Have you learned anything of interest on the subject?”

“Nothing conclusive.” I didn’t want to immediately tell her what Keras had told me. Given how long it had taken him to admit to any connection at all, I suspected that information was valuable. That might have just implied personal value to Keras, rather than any broader significance, but I still didn’t feel like giving it away for free. “But I’m interested in exploring it further. Would the crystals in the shrines know more?”

“Absolutely. Asking about the connection may be a worthwhile use of a boon if you complete a shrine. For the moment, however, I’ll have to ask you to refrain from taking the risk of entering this place. I need you intact for your meeting.”

“Now that we’re out here, care to share some more details about what is going on?” Sera asked.

Len paused, considering, then raised a finger. “Hold on a moment.

Detect Scrying.”

She closed her eyes, concentrated, then shook her head. “No, we’re still in an observable region. It’ll have to wait until we get into the proximity of our destination.”

I groaned a bit at that, but I couldn’t begrudge her for being cautious. We rested a bit longer, chatting a bit here and there, and then resumed the teleportation process.

It was past nightfall when we finally reached our destination, but fortunately, we didn’t encounter any dangers along the way.

When our final teleportation spell ended, my eyes were immediately drawn upward toward the colossal sight ahead of me.

A tower. A gigantic, formidable tower, wrought from the same strange gray stone as the sword shrine had been. I gawked as my head turned upward further, seeking the top of the cylindrical structure, but failing to find it. The building disappeared into the clouds.

“…Is that…?” I asked.

“The Seventh Spire?” Len released my hand, then stepped forward. “No. I’m afraid that’s further to the south. This is, in my humble opinion, something far more fascinating. A structure built not by the goddess, not by the makers…but by mortal hands.”

She turned, smiled, and waved to the tower’s entrance. “Welcome to the Sorcerer’s Spire. Home of the Ascendant Arbiter.”

As if on cue, the massive wooden doors of the tower opened of their own accord.

Len cracked a grin. “I believe he’s been expecting you.”

