CHAPTER XIII – A PARTY OF ADVENTURERS

The trap door under the bloodstained carpet revealed a rickety ladder leading down into darkness. Mara grabbed on and began to climb down immediately after Susan vanished, then the rest of us followed with a slightly greater degree of caution.

It wasn’t long before a wave of increasingly familiar vertigo hit me and my vision went white.

When my vision cleared, I stood in what looked like the entrance to an elegant noble manor.

The fourth floor. We’ve almost made it.

We stood on dark green carpet, with a bright blue rug covering it. The hall ahead was lined with statues, and I could see a variety of paintings on the walls, mostly depicting what looked like members of the same familya group of people with short brown hair and prominent foreheads.

My companions appeared around me within moments, but even before I saw them, I wasn’t alone. There were dozens of people within the chambermost notably a man only a few feet away from us who looked like the world’s most stereotypical butler. He wore a pristine suit, an elegant hat, and a badge of office. His neatly-trimmed mustache was black, but what little hair remained on his head was gray.

“Welcome, guests.” The presumed-butler bowed deeply. “We are deeply honored that you’ve chosen to attend young Miss Verena’s debut. Please, come inside. The other staff will be pleased to serve you food and drinks. You may leave your coats here,” he gestured to a nearby rack, “if you wish to lighten your load.”

I frowned, opening my mouth to ask a question, but Sera was faster. “Thank you, sir. Might I inquire as to what is expected of us at thisgathering?”

“Of course, Miss…”

“Cadence. Sera Cadence.” Sera flashed him a bright smile.

“A Cadence…?” He gasped. “From that military family in Valia? How very strange and wonderful! I’m Anthony, the Head Manservant for the Verena family. To answer your question, very little is required of you at thisgathering — you may simply relax and enjoy your time here. It is, of course, traditional to present the Mistress or the Master of the household with an appropriate gift to honor their daughter’s debut.”

I frowned at his response to my family name. We were in Caelford, so I supposed that it wasn’t a common name, but his reaction had been oddly extreme.

“Of course, naturally.” Sera beamed at him, then waved a hand to the rest of us. “Come along, then, everyone.”

“Um, hold on, sorry.” Patrick winced. “Hi, sorry, I’m Patrick. Retainer. I’m not as versed in all this — what exactly would be an appropriate gift?”

“Of course, young retainer, I am happy to help. That,” the older man smiled, “is always a matter of some debate. You must impress the hosts, but without being too ostentatious — you do not wish to make yourselves appear overzealous. Too valuable of a gift could imply you are belittling the wealth of the hosts, or perhaps showing up the other guests. Something with a personal touch is, of course, always appreciated.”

“Come on, Patrick.” Sera gestured to the rest of us as she began to move into the main living room area. “I think we’ve got the idea. We’ve wasted enough of the good man’s time.”

I gave a quick glance to Professor Meltlake and Mara before we moved in. Meltlake was frowning silently at the décor, while Mara was staring at everything with wide, awe-filled eyes. She’d seen noble manors before — she’d lived with us at Derek’s place, after all — but even Elora’s house hadn’t been quite this overtly fancy. It was clearly set up for a party, and I was beginning to feel more underdressed and underprepared by the moment.

“Oh, one last thing!” Anthony remarked as I followed Sera deeper into the room. “If you didn’t have time to prepare a proper gift…” He raised a hand as if to half-cover his mouth and gave us a conspiratorial look, “the crafting hall is to the right, past the dining hall. And, if you’re in need of some inspiration, you can always check the library. It’s one of Lady Verena’s favorite places, and I can assure you that she’s read each and every book.”

“That’s much appreciated, thank you.” Sera gave a curtsey, then waved for the rest of us to follow her.

There were dozens of other people present in the chamber, as well as other nearby rooms that I could see from the entrance. I’d never been an expert on clothing style, but the garb was both excessively formal and overtly antiquated. There were a few people in military-style uniforms, which were bright crimson. Caelford did have crimson as one of their flag colors, but I thought I remembered their uniforms being predominantly black. That was a little strange.

From the entrance chamber, I could see a broad spiral stairway heading up to a second floor, as well rooms branching off to the left, right, and straight ahead. The left was the library that the butler had mentioned, the right was a dining area, and I couldn’t quite get a good look at the room straight ahead because of the crowd. I could hear music coming from it, though, so maybe some sort of main entertainment lounge or ballroom.

People chatted, discussing the Lord and Lady of the house, local politics, and recent events.

My initial read was that the goal was probably something like “impress the noble family”, “present a proper gift for the daughter”, or maybe just “ignore everything and find a stairway to the next floor”. That said, scenario floors could be tricky, and I already knew that there was a good chance that the floor could be designed to subvert our expectations.

I glanced around at the crowd. Are those other Climbers, or summons playing scenario roles?The butler was almost certainly a summon — or a Whisper, maybe — that was part of the challenge. Everyone else was too hard to tell without more information. A brief use of Detect Aura while we walked showed me mostly red auras, meaning mostly Carnelian-level people or monsters. That didn’t clarify if they were climbers, but it made me lean slightly more toward scenario creatures, since most climbers would be stronger than Carnelian.

“Corin, focus.” Sera snapped her fingers. I’d gotten distracted by staring at the crowd.

“Sorry.” I followed her the rest of the way into an adjacent room. I caught a few of chatter tidbits along the way.

“…sickly, hope she doesn’t collapse again…”

“…Valians? What were they thinking, coming here with the current political…”

“…heard a rumor that monsters are coming…” “…can’t believe the audacity…”

That last one caught my attention more than the others. It came from a man with dark blond hair in a crimson uniform with a thick moustache and an elaborate black-hilted rapier hanging at his hip. The rapier had an impressively-large black crystal on the pommel, with a layer of runes on the metal portion that kept the pommel in place. As my gaze turned toward him, he sneered at me. Like, actually sneered.

I rolled my eyes and turned back away, following Sera as she led us toward the library.

The library itself was a grand one, but sparsely occupied. It was three stories, with a massive stairway leading between them and several…ladder things. I don’t know the term for them. Ladders for reaching books? I don’t know. There were a lot of them, and they were obviously necessary given the sheer quantity of the collection.

A few uniformed servants were giving tours to other guests, but we ignored them and simply found a quiet corner to talk.

We formed a loose circle. Sera turned straight to Meltlake. “Care to explain, professor?”

Meltlake smiled. “No, no. I’ll step in if I’m truly needed, but you’ve been doing fine so far. This whole exercise is a good stand-in for your missed final exam. I’d like to see how you can do without my intervention.”

Sera nodded, clearly expecting that answer. “Very well, Corin?” I blinked. “What?”

“Do you want to begin?”

I stared at her. “This is a historical scenario. You know I’m terrible at history, Sera. I barely made it through a certain someone’s lessons.”

“You were a little behind at first, but I think you caught up just fine,” Meltlake reassured me. “Any guesses?”

“Somewhere around Six Years War era, based on the outfits and manner of speech. We’re lucky they’re speaking Valian. Based on the uniform color, we’re not in Valia — it’d be either Caelford or one of the Edrias.”

“Edria.” Sera noted. “Specifically, the lands of Archduke Tychus Verena.”

“Very good, Miss Cadence.” Meltlake raised her cane in an approving gesture. “I’d award you points if they were relevant here.”

“I’ll take them for next year?” Sera tried.

Meltlake chucked, but with a sad twinge to it. “I…don’t think I’ll be teaching you then. We’ll see.”

“Archduke Tychus…” Mara frowned. “That’s not one of ‘em, is it?Kjell, Sheng, Wolff, and Jing, right?”

She knew a lot more of those names than I remembered.

“That’s currently true,” Meltlake responded, “but the houses were different in this era.”

Sera’s brow creased. “I remember all that, but I can’t recall how exactly the changes happened. It’s been a while since we had our Edrian history class.”

I wasn’t sure I’d ever taken that class. Missing three years of school was, at times, a serious disadvantage.

“Go mingle.” Meltlake waved to the crowd. “You’ll figure it out.” “Wait,  wait.  Before  that,”  I  interrupted.  “Shouldn’t  we  discussobjectives and resources?”

“Usually, the objective of a scenario becomes clear as it progresses.” Meltlake set her cane down, her voice shifting back into teaching mode. “The criteria for success are not always immediately apparent, but some conflict will occur that must be resolved, or a goal will be presented.”

“We’ve already been presented one — presents!” Patrick laughed at his own wordplay and got some mild chuckles from the rest of us. “What are we going to get the birthday girl?”

“It’s more than a birthday,” Sera noted. “It’s her high society debut. That means she’s likely turning seventeen. She’ll already have her attunement, given her age and connection to an archduke’s family, so gifts related to a Judgment would not be applicable. As an archduke’s descendant, she’ll expect something costly, but the butler did hint that a personalized gift might be appropriate as well.”

“How do we know what she’d like?” Mara asked. “Noble gifts aren’t really my specialty.”

“Simple as anything, Mara.” Sera gave Mara a conspiratorial look. “We’re going to ask her directly.”

I blinked. “Is that…acceptable? We probably aren’t supposed to meet her until after the debut, at which point the gifts will have to be prepared.”

“Please, Corin. If she’s anything like most teenage noblewomen, she’s probably absolutely terrified right now. I’m sure she’d appreciate a couple of her peers coming to check on her, make sure she’s properly dressed and made up, and that sort of thing.”

Mara quirked a brow. “And you want me to help with that. Wouldn’t she have maidservants?”

“She probably does, but I can do better. And I want you to accompany me in case the walls try to eat me while I’m looking for her. This is, in spite of appearances, still a spire.”

“That I can do.” Mara nodded. “What are the boys going to be up to, then?”

Sera waved a hand dismissively. “I’m sure they can find something interesting to read while we solve the test. Maybe even something relevant to this particular event, or the house’s history.”

I rolled my eyes. “If you want someone to do research, we do have a Researcher.”

“Summoning an elemental in the middle of a party without permission would not be a good social move, dear brother.”

“Could you even do that while she’s still summoned outside the spire?” “Oh, sure. It would just transport her here, much like how I teleportedher to the train.”

I nodded. I had a number of questions on the subject, but I needed to focus for once in my life. I folded my arms. “Given how useful she’d be, maybe get permission?”

“Fine, fine. I’ll ask at some point if the opportunity arises. But don’t wait for that.” She tipped her head. “I’ll see you in…say, an hour or two, back here?”

“Do we know how much time we have?” I asked.

“I overhead someone mentioning it at the door,” Patrick replied. “It’s just past two bells. The debut is at six. We have a little under four hours.”

I exhaled a breath. I didn’t like the idea of being around that many people for four hours…but I supposed the library wouldn’t be too awful.

If I actually stuck to Sera’s plan. Which I wouldn’t. The library had benefits, but I had other ways of getting information in a place like this, and I wasn’t going to sit around and wait for Sera to try to solve everything on her own.

“Mara, Patrick. Based on your previous climb, do you have any insights on what else we may need to do here?” I asked them.

“Not really, wasn’t anything quite this elaborate for our floors.” Mara shrugged. “We did several scenario floors, but they were more…action oriented? One was defending a fortress under siege, another was a heist… nothing like this.”

“Yeah, that heist was really fun though.” Patrick laughed. “We’ll have to do one again sometime!”

“Let’s maybe keep our voices down when the word ‘heist’ is involved, Patrick,” Sera chided him. “Anyway, let’s break for now. Corin, Patrick, hit the books. Professor, care to join us ladies to try to get in to talk to Lady Verena? Your name might assist us in making introductions before the debut more easily.”

By name, I presumed Sera meant Professor Meltlake’s original house name — Hartigan — which was already famous in this time period. Hartigan was a descendant of an archduke herself, and thus, she had considerably more social standing than any of the rest of us. She was the type of person that should be at this sort of event, whereas we…well, if this was just after the Six Years War and somewhere in Edria…I might have said the name “Cadence” a little too loudly.

“No, that’s all right. I think I’ll go speak to the archduke. I have some questions for him.” Meltlake gazed toward the door to the next room, looking focused.

“Is there something we should know?” I asked.

“Yes,” Meltlake acknowledged, “but you’ll want to figure it out on your own.”

I rolled my eyes at our professor’s cryptic comment, then waved goodbye to Sera, Mara, and Meltlake as they disappeared into other rooms.

“Well,” Patrick said gleefully. “It’s just us! Time to hit the books?” “Seems so.” I nodded. “You check the left side and I’ll take the right?” “Sure!”

We headed to the shelves. I scanned through the first set, hoping it might give me a clue about the library’s organization style — genre, alphabetization, that sort of thing.

Let’s see…Memoirs of the Blackstone Assassin…Symphony’s Silence… The Death of Destiny…Hm. All fiction here. Not alphabetized by title or by author, so far as I can tell.

I frowned, checking the next row.

Arcane Assassins: Volume 1. Stab: A Stabbing Story. Stab 2: The Stabbening.

Those…can’t be real books, are they?I picked up Stab 2 and flipped it open. Remarkably, there were no mechanical or magical traps involved; it was simply a book. One with pages and, strangely enough, words on those pages.

I read a passage.

Steel rushed down the hallway, encountering another set of guards. He shouted the name of his special technique, “Instant Death Skill: Ultimate Stabbening!” and flashed by in a blur of motion, stabbing each of them. Each guard exploded into fine red mist. They had been stabbed. They had been stabbed to death.

I set the book back down.

How…how was this even published? I feel like someone is making fun of me just by having it here.

I set the book down with a sigh.

What else do we have? More Blackstone Assassin books? Thief of Hearts: The Loves and Lies of Wrynn Jaden?I opened that latter one as well, then shut it immediately, my face reddening. Oh. It’s that kind of book.

I headed to the next shelf. Surely, there had to be some historical reference material in here somewhere, or at least a clue or two.

I’ll save you my own frustration and sum things up: I didn’t find any. I scanned each shelf carefully, but everything there seemed like fiction — and not even my type of fiction.

Maybe I’m looking at this the wrong way. Could there be secret passages? Maybe if I move the right book, one that looks out of place…I cast Detect Aura and scanned the shelves, trying to find any books that glowed, but I didn’t see any. I did see some glowing from some of the people in the room as well as many of the people beyond. Nothing unusual— just low-level attunement auras and a few assorted magical items.

I tried a more mechanical search, looking for any books that appeared obviously out of place. The wrong color, the wrong size, that sort of thing. I found nothing of the sort.

If there were any secret passages, they weren’t something I could find with a cursory search.

I checked in with Patrick next, finding him reading a copy of Secrets of the Sacred Swords: Volume 2 — The Two Edges of Twilight.

“I can’t believe they have this one! It’s been out of print for decades!” He glanced from side-to-side, then whispered. “Jaden Box?”

I considered that, then shook my head. “I don’t think it’s a good idea. But if we can get Researcher in here later, she might be able to copy it for you.”

“Ooh. Okay, let’s see if we can do that.” He set the book down. “Anything relevant in there, or in general?” I asked.

“No, sorry, got kind of distracted. I checked most of it, but nothing seemed like history books.”

“Huh. A library of…just fiction? That has to be meaningful. Or maybe there’s a second library elsewhere in the house?”

“I’ll go ask the librarian.” Patrick turned to go do the super obvious thing I hadn’t even considered. I stared after him, wondering if I should go along, too. The answer was “yes”, but I chose not to, anyway. Talking to people was the worst. I waited for Patrick to return.

“Librarian says that these books are historical and looked at me kind of funny when I asked. He also said that he recommends Stab 2: The Stabbening, which is Lady Verena’s favorite book.”

I let out an exasperated sigh. It was highly plausible that there was some kind of secret tucked into the pages of that novel, something that might be a key to a shortcut through this scenario.

…But I couldn’t make myself read that book. Not even knowing what was at stake.

“Let’s get out of here.” I waved toward the door. Hopefully, if we could get Researcher summoned, she could parse through that novel — and others— to find any available clues.

Next, we headed through the dining hall. I caught sight of Meltlake talking to someone near the back — a tall, regal-looking blond-haired man with an obvious Citrine-level aura. He wore an actual honest-to-goodnesscrown and wore a long cavalry saber on his left hip. His outfit was military formal in the dark crimson colors of Edria, but accentuated by a long black cape with a symbol of a bird in flight embroidered on the back. Archduke Verena, if I had to guess.

I gave Meltlake a nod, which she returned. If she wanted me to approach, I trusted she would have gestured as such. Instead, I walked past them and toward the next area — the crafting hall.

The “crafting hall” actually referred to a whole section of the building with several different rooms, each dedicated to a different purpose. One looked like it was made for weaving, another for brewing potions, one for making weapons and armor…I was seriously tempted to go loot the whole place, but I restrained my instincts. Barely. I didn’t even know if the items here were real; it was likely that some of the things would be, but others might be illusions or constructs designed for the test itself that would simply vanish. And rampant looting was encouraged in some spires, but not this one. The Tiger Spire required a higher degree of calculation when looting was concerned, and I didn’t want to get kicked out or face some sort of fate worse than death for pocketing an extra healing potion or two.

I found some other people working in the rooms already, all of which were attuned. Presumably, these were other spire climbers, but I supposed they could have been more constructs for the scenario. I ignored them for the most part, instead focusing on anything I could glean from the rooms in terms of clues.

I wasn’t big on clothing, but I noted the weaving room had some unusual garb hung up in one of the corners — long black coats, cloaks, and masks. Blackstone Bandit garb, or something approximating it.

Are some of the Blackstone Bandits here in the spire, hanging up their outfits or making duplicates as gifts? Or is this another extension of the strange theme of the books in the library?I frowned, moving on to the alchemy lab. I scanned over the available supplies.

Willow’s Wail…Redbane…Crimson Thorn.

These are poison. Literally all of them are poison.

I rubbed my forehead. What have I gotten into here?The weapons and armor room had a full forge — which seemed a little dangerous, honestly, given the lack of ventilation. There were some runes on the wall that might have served for air circulation, but I didn’t recognize them. I wrote them down to check later, then took a look at the existing weapons on the walls.

Daggers. Knives. Stilettos. Almost all short-ranged stabbing and slashing implements. There were a few other things, like a hand-held crossbow and some suits of black leather armor.

I was beginning to sense a strong theme and I didn’t like it. “We going to make anything?” Patrick asked.

“No, not yet. I think I’d like to focus on getting information before we make any gifts. It’s probably been close to an hour — let’s swing by the library again and see if the others are back.”

We checked. They weren’t.

“Back to reading the books, then? Maybe we missed something,” Patrick offered.

“No,” I shook my head. “I have something far less pleasant in mind.” “Such as?”

“My least favorite thing.” I shuddered, only half-exaggerating the motion. “Meeting new people.”

***In spite of loathing social gatherings, I wasn’t entirely foreign to them. I’d attended a number of fancy parties when I was young, mostly with my mother. I’d even seen a few of these high society debut style events. Admittedly, none of them had been in a fake spire-created Edria, but I had some idea of what I was doing.

My first order of business was figuring out a few key things about the people present. Who was important? Who was a potential threat? Who was a potential ally? Who was missing?In order to gather that information, I needed to get in there, act like I belonged, and ask some questions — or, in some cases, prompt people for information without directly asking.

I headed straight to the room with the music playing. As I’d guessed, it was a ballroom, with a number of people dancing and others simply standing off on the side of the dance floor. Some were watching and listening to the band, which was playing some Tyrenian instruments I didn’tthink I’d ever seen, including what looked like the world’s largest harp but turned sideways. Others were seated in groups, chatting while eating some sort of appetizers. There was a bar with alcohol in the back, as well some serving staff handing out small plates of food to the seated guests.

Immediately, I scanned the room for anyone of interest.

Again, I caught the eyes of that blond-haired military officer. I noticed his hand drift toward his rapier for a moment as his eyes darkened, but he was quickly dragged away by one of his companions.

Well, I found enemy number one, at least.

The reason for his animosity was clear enough — he must have heard my family name. House Cadence was famous for our role in the Six Years War…which, during this time period, must have been a relatively recent event. I wasn’t sure exactly how recent, but that military uniform meant he might have fought a Cadence personally, or perhaps his family had. Or maybe he was just bitter about our role in ending the war.

I didn’t have enough information to say what his specific grievance was yet, but it seemed like a good idea to find out at some point — or, at a minimum, watch my back.

There were several other groups and individuals that caught my attention.

Near the band, I saw a pair of red-haired people in their twenties that were animatedly discussing something. Their particular shade of red was rare enough in itself, but even more notable was that their eyes were a matching color. Aside from that, they looked human, but I couldn’t recall seeing any ordinary humans with eyes like that. They still had visible sclera, but barely. I wondered if they might be related to those “rethri” that Keras was talking about from his homeland, or possibly some kind of elementals or half-elementals.

I saw only a single other group of people that looked Valian, although it was possible that some others were of Valian descent and simply didn’t stand out to the same degree. The Valian group were mostly wearing the traditional whites and blues of our nation, making an obvious (and possibly dangerous) statement about their national allegiance.

The only exception was a blonde-haired woman who sat at the head of the table, wearing a dress of bright crimson. That was an Edrian color, so I might have mistaken her for an Edrian herself if not for the brilliant andeye-catching harp-shaped amulet around her neck. Between that and her perfectly braided blonde hair, she was an absolutely iconic representative of House Haven.

House Haven was one of the handful of Valian archduchies, with their line stretching back before the nation’s founding. House Haven owned Haven Securities, the largest banking organization on the entire continent. They funded numerous projects, including the train we took from Valia to Caelford and the famous expedition in the Unclaimed Lands that Keras and Lars had taken part in.

Of course, many stories claimed their line could be traced back to Aayara Haven, better known as the legendary thief Symphony. Obviously, that had to be an exaggeration.

The Valians were sharing a table with a group from Caelford and talking excitedly about something in the center — a glowing device I could barely see from a distance. I overheard a snippet that sounded like, “electric, not magic” and thought I caught the gist of it. These people were delighted by what I could only assume was, based on the time period this scenario depicted, an early demonstration of an electric lightbulb.

There were a few other groups from Caelford present, including a couple of kids playing with what looked like a toy golem controlled by a hand-held cane. I was half-tempted to go take a look at how that worked, but I had higher priorities.

Beyond those few potential allies, I noted the vast majority of people present were Edrian, which wasn’t surprising given the apparent locale of the event. I was still scanning through the crowd when I froze, processing a face that shouldn’t have been possible. His dark skin, his almond eyes, even the wry grin on his face…Jin?No. As he turned, apparently noting my stare, I noted small differences. His hair was cut shorter, his chin was a little more square-shaped, and his left cheek had a distinctive curved scar. His arms were more obviously muscled, and I’d never seen Jin wearing anything like this man’s bright crimson tunic and trousers.

Perhaps even more notable, however, was the two-handed sword on the man’s back. It was nearly as tall as he was, worn in a back scabbard that couldn’t have possibly been practical to draw from, with a scarlet hiltshaped to evoke the image of a flame and a brightly burning scarlet crystal in the place of a pommel.

I recognized it almost instantly, and Patrick must have as well. His eyes widened and he whispered a word too quiet to hear, but I knew what he was saying.

Which was why I stood a little taller and headed straight in the Jin- lookalike’s direction. Patrick followed right behind me, seemingly awestruck.

I wasn’t quite as affected by the sight as he was, but I knew this was someone we absolutely needed to talk to. There was no chance someone like this would appear in a scenario without being significant.

The Jin-lookalike saw us approaching. His eyes flicked between us, then he made a little startled jolt when he saw Patrick’s hip. Then he excused himself from his group, bowed deeply to them, and turned to approach us at a rapid pace.

When we came closer, I opened my mouth to speak, but he was faster… and he ignored me entirely, bowing deeply to Patrick.

“My forgiveness for not sensing your presence sooner, Wielder of the Sword of Dawn’s Bright Light. That you would come to this place is a keen demonstration of the bravery that earns you the right to carry your blade.”

“I…uh…” Patrick paled. “I am so sorry to say this, but it’s not the real Dawnbringer.”

The Jin-lookalike’s expression contorted in confusion. Then he stood up straighter and his eyes shut briefly. When he reopened them, he had a briefly perplexed look, then he bowed to Patrick again.

“My forgiveness for not sensing your presence sooner, Wielder of the Sword of Dawn’s Bright Light. That you would come to this place is a keen demonstration of the bravery that earns you the right to carry your blade.”

The same line. The same tone. The exact same…well, cadence.

Patrick looked briefly at a loss, then I whispered. “Scenario. You’re the wielder. Act like it.”

To his credit, something clicked in Patrick’s face immediately, then he returned the bow. “You needn’t ask my forgiveness for anything, Wielder of the Sword of Burning Life. The humility and charity in your demeanor reflect well on your own qualifications. I have only just arrived, andunannounced. I am Patrick Wayland-Cadence, retainer of House Cadence. I am greatly honored to meet my brother wielder.”

“The honor is mine, Patrick Wayland-Cadence.” The Jin-lookalike turned his eyes to meet Patrick’s directly. “It is good that you have come. I am Dalen Mitsurugi, of the House of the Unbroken Queen. These are difficult times and…if I may be forthcoming, I am pleased to see there may be another I can trust in this den of hydras.”

My heart skipped a beat when I heard his name. He was using the traditional Artinian naming order, meaning “Dalen” was his surname, not his personal name. Perhaps that was a point of pride; at this earlier time period, East Edria — which would have still been Kelridge in living memory — would have been less thoroughly incorporated into Edrian culture. And, of course, some Edrian people used that naming convention as well; Edrians usually just adopted Valian-style naming simply to avoid confusion at school.

The most important part of that wasn’t the naming order, though, it was what his name signified. I was currently staring at the entirely too attractive face of one of Jin’s ancestors. Or, at a minimum, a member of a branch of his house — he’d mentioned that various retainers used the house name.

Given their similar looks, I found the former more likely. This was probably his…weirdly hot grandfather or something. I was more than a little conflicted by that line of thinking.

“Two, if I may be so bold.” Patrick gestured to me. “This is my liege lord, Corin of the House of Cadence.”

“Cadence.” His eyes shifted to me. “A relative of Alaric Cadence?”

I nodded in confirmation. “I am. It is a pleasure to meet the Wielder of the Sword of Burning Life.”

“It pleases me that you use the proper name for my weapon. As for your house…” He frowned. “I cannot say I am pleased by it.”

“I appreciate your honesty, but why?” I scanned the room briefly. We were definitely getting attention from other nearby groups with this discussion, but I didn’t really care. “We were allies. We helped end the war.”

Dalen Mitsurugi gave me a strained smile. “No. You did not. You ended Valia’s involvement. For some of us,” he glanced around at the room, “the war never ended.”

“I…forgive me for my presumption. My house only sought to save as many lives as possible.”

“Valian lives.” Mitsurugi shook his head. “Such has always been the way of your people. But understand that I mean no disrespect when I say this. I would do anything for the lives of my own people, and though we were abandoned, it is not your house — or your nation — that I hold to blame. You are not the ones who brought knives to the throat of my home.”

I was beginning to think this conversation was going in an extremely unwise direction, but Mitsurugi paid no attention to the reactions of the crowd around us.

In fact, I suspect he was inviting them.

Is he here to pick a fight? Oh, no. What have I gotten into this time?I cleared my throat. “Perhaps we can discuss these matters somewhere more private?”

Mitsurugi’s expression darkened. “I see you lack the courage that your retainer has, but I suppose I cannot fault a noble for lacking the strength of a warrior.”

I bristled at his response. “You mistake me, sir. I am a duelist first, a Cadence second, and a noble third. I speak only of strategy and polite conduct. Does such a simple concept evade you?”

He gave me an appraising look, then nodded. “Well-rebuked. You are more than I first gave you credit for. I decline your offer for privacy, however. If you would speak to me at all, it will be in the center of things. Patience is a virtue of his sword,” he nodded to Patrick, “not mine.”

I usually heard the three virtues of Dawnbringer described as including insight, not patience, but I supposed that there were some translation or interpretation issues with those as well as the different names used for the swords themselves. Regardless, his point was clear enough. I took a breath as I heard someone else approaching, and I knew who it was going to be before I even turned my head.

Apparently, even a fake House Dalen was sufficient to instantly get me into a near insurmountable level of trouble.

“House Cadence. I thought I heard the woman at the door speak the name, but I told myself ‘no, no one from that house could be so foolish and arrogant as to come to this place’. It would be such an obvious andunbearable insult.” The speaker was the blond-haired man with the moustache and the military uniform.

I turned to him. “We mean no insult. We simply came to pay our respects for the archduke and his daughter.”

“Of course. You came to pay your respects.” The man laughed. “The war is over, after all. Your family made quite certain of that. And now, we can simply dine and dance and pretend nothing ever happened!”

I frowned. This was delicate, and I wasn’t good at delicate, but Sera was nowhere nearby. “We cannot undo the past. We can simply move forward and be grateful that no further lives are being lost.”

He sneered at me again. Big on sneering, this guy. “No further lives. Yes, I suppose from the perspective of a Cadence, my father’s life was quite sufficient, wasn’t it?”

I blinked, then gawked in horror. “Wait, then you’re—”

“Ah, yes. Allow me to properly introduce myself.” He stood up straighter, eschewing a bow and instead putting a hand over his heart in what looked like some sort of military salute. “Captain Jerome Schmidt, son of the General Kaspar Schmidt.”

My blood ran cold.

I knew both names. Kaspar Schmidt was one of the most famous men in military history — an Edrian commander who had led their forces to success after success in the Six Years War.

And, more importantly, he had been killed by my great grandfather, Alaric Cadence, in a war-ending duel. The blood of Kaspar Schmidt had given birth to my family’s noble title and reputation.

His son, Jerome, had been orphaned at a young age by this act. He became a professional duelist, killed numerous rivals, attempted to drum up support to resume the war. He ultimately disappeared under mysterious circumstances.

This scenario would be many years before Jerome disappeared, but likely during the height of his dueling career.

And so, I had a feeling I knew exactly what was coming.

That didn’t mean I had to play along. Offering condolences for his father’s death would simply infuriate him, so I tried to take a simpler approach. I returned his salute. “I understand your grievance with my family, then, but I have no personal quarrel with you. I would hope that wecan attend this evening’s festivities without doing anything to disrupt the party.”

“Oh, on the contrary! I believe everyone here could do with some entertainment, and I’m confident that the archduke would be most pleased to see the prowess of a young scion of the famous Cadence dueling family. And I just heard you mention being a duelist yourself, did I not?”

I internally groaned at my previous words. “You did indeed, sir, but this seems an untimely event for such a demonstration. This is a celebration of life, not of death.”

“It’s funny that you should speak of death, Master Cadence,” Jerome looked me in the eyes, “when Alaric Cadence killed my father in a non- lethal duel.”

I blinked. “What?”

“You didn’t know?” He clapped his hands together. “Oh, how delightful. You must have only been but a child. Perhaps your family never told you of the terms? But I have a few years on you, I think. I was there. I saw the duel end.”

I was sincerely curious now, as well as a bit disturbed. “And what did you see?”

“I saw the terms.” He spoke now not only to me, but spun about and projected his voice to the audience. “A match to three strikes to the torso, or to surrender. There was no need for a life to be taken. And my dear father, rest him well in Selys’ heart, fought well to abide by these rules. He struck only with minimal force, scoring two points in an instant. Alaric Cadence,” he half-spat the name, “scored not a single point. As my father aimed to strike the final point, he was grabbed from behind by a hidden construct — one that seized his throat and crushed it.” Jerome clenched his fist to gesture. “While my father choked, Alaric simply watched and waited. He could have struck for his points at any time. But he did not. My father choked, unable to even wheeze out a surrender — until at last, he breathed no more.”

He stomped his foot. “Alaric Cadence dishonored the field of dueling that day. He took a life when taking one was not needed, and for that, I lost a father.”

“I…” I exhaled a breath. “I’m going to be direct with you, even though I don’t think you’ll listen. I’d never heard that story. If that’s true, it’s aterrible thing, and I cannot condone that sort of action. When I return home, I will seek to investigate the matter and ensure that if there was dishonorable conduct in the duel, it will be properly punished.”

He looked momentarily taken aback. For a moment, I thought I’d succeeded with my approach, then he shook his head. “No. You seem a man of honor to make that offer, and it is better than I expected. But blood can only be paid in blood.”

I let out a sigh. “And you want to fight someone who was a child at the time? That’s how you’ll earn back your own family’s honor?”

“No,” he shook his head, “But when I beat you, perhaps Alaric Cadence will notice the insult. Perhaps he would deign to fight me next. And if I kill him? That would be a start.”

Well, so much for that approach.

I quickly evaluated the people around us, trying to judge what the general sentiment was about the current exchange. We were, predictably, generating a lot of attention. Only a small group had gathered, but people at all sorts of nearby tables had turned to watch us, and I could see some strained expressions on the faces of Valian delegation.

Dalen Mitsurugi watched with obvious interest, his lips upturned in a balanced smile that would have been strangely foreign on his descendant’s face. If he had any intention of stepping in, he didn’t show any sign.

Patrick looked exceedingly nervous, but he hid it well.

I don’t think I’m getting out of this one. In fact, I’m not sure I should.

I focused on Jerome again, abandoning my usual caution in favor of an expedient resolution. “Fine. If you’re insistent on doing this, let’s get the preamble out of the way, shall we?”

“Better. Now you at least sound like a fighter.” He nodded. “Very well.

Corin Cadence, I challenge you to a duel. To the death.” “No.” I shook my head. “I refuse.”

He looked taken aback. “What?”

“You know people can refuse a duel, right? I don’t have to accept.” I gave him a wave. “Have a nice day.” I turned to walk away.

“Very well, then, coward. I suppose I’ll have to challenge your retainer instead. Then, when he’s dead…”

Resh it. I wish he hadn’t done that.

I exhaled a breath, slowly turning back around to face Jerome, my jaw tight. Patrick was, in this scenario, supposed to be the Wielder of Dawnbringer. For me, refusing a duel against an older opponent with a combat attunement might seem somewhat cowardly, but not exceptionally so.

Patrick was wielding a sword that signified bravery. He also had an obvious combat attunement. If he refused a duel, it might ruin his entire place in the scenario.

And if he accepted? Well, I wasn’t going to say he didn’t have a chance, but in my approximation, I had a much better one. This was less about Patrick’s skills relative to my own and more because of certain specific factors I’ll get into later. “Fine. I’ll duel you, but not to the death. To submission, either by surrender or obvious incapacitation. A neutral third party from outside of Edria and Valia will adjudicate. Winner can claim a reasonable concession from the loser, with service and lives disallowed as concessions.”

Jerome sniffed, apparently considering. “Very well. I don’t need to kill an Enchanter child. Perhaps breaking you will be sufficient to earn your house’s enmity. And a concession is an added bonus. Perhaps your house glove, to mount on my wall.”

I rolled my eyes. “Do you even hear yourself? Bragging about beating a child before you’ve even started fighting? You know what? I was hesitant at first, but I think I’m going to enjoy this.”

“As the challenged, you must choose the—”

“Yes, yes, I know. All weapons and attunements legal, Patrick is my second, and right now.”

There was a murmur from the crowd.

Patrick winced and leaned over to whisper to me. “Uh, Corin? Is this… wise? I’ll happily be your second, but…”

I whispered in return. “It’ll be fine. I considered asking Meltlake to be my champion, which would have been hilarious, but it won’t be necessary.”

“You sure?”

I laughed. “Very certain. I have, in a very real sense, been practicing for this battle for my entire life.”

***We headed outside.

Once there, Jerome made a show of designating his second: Maria Wolff, one of the daughters of Archduke Wolff. She was one of the highest- ranking political figures at the party, and roughly his own age — somewhere in the early twenties. She wore a fancy dress with her house colors rather than a military uniform, but that didn’t stop her from carrying a pair of hatchets on her belt. Both of her hands were gloved, and I thought I could see a hint of power beneath them, but something was blocking my detect aura spell from seeing beneath them.

I had bigger things to worry about, though, like Jerome himself.

I sized him up, even though I already had a good idea of what I was dealing with. Jerome was an Executioner, an offense-focused Edrian attunement with a specialization in shroud shaping. Based on his aura, he was currently only a Carnelian, but I suspected he was suppressing his shroud. He looked to be about twenty, so I was reasonably confident he was Sunstone-level, most likely in the Sunstone-B range.

You may be thinking, “Corin, you are a crazy person. Why are you dueling a Sunstone on your own for a small portion of a test?”

It wasn’t about protecting my family’s honor. Honestly, I had trouble paying attention to that even under the best circumstances.

There were a few reasons I decided to go through with it. One, this floor was constructed in a weirdly specific way that made my family history relevant. That could have been a coincidence, but it was very plausible that someone like Tristan was manipulating events and putting me in a situation where pursuing something like this would be relevant to our success in the spire.

Two, even if this scenario wasn’t constructed with me in mind, beating someone in a public duel was a way to make a huge impact. It would get me immediate attention and information.

Three, the duel terms would allow me to demand something from Jerome if I won — which could be integral to our overall success in the scenario.

Fourth, and most importantly…I knew I could win.

I’d studied Edrian dueling techniques since practically the moment I could walk, and the house that Alaric Cadence had crushed was a particular focus. My education in most regards had been spotty at best, but I’d never neglected studying duels.

I’d read about Jerome extensively. I’d read about his victories — and they were frequent. I’d also read about his losses, though, and I knew the elements that contributed to them. I’d read about his fighting style and specific abilities he demonstrated at different points in his life. I knew he wasn’t Citrine-level yet: he didn’t hit that until his thirties, and based on his appearance and the nature of the party, I was confident he wasn’t even close to thirty yet.

My father had even engaged in mock fights with me where he “played” at being people like Jerome. He'd beaten me bloody each time, of course, but I’d trained against an approximation of Jerome’s dueling style nonetheless.

And beyond that?He was wearing practically nothing for equipment. He had a standard military uniform and that black-hilted rapier at his hip. The runes I’d seen near the crystal at the bottom of the rapier meant that the weapon was clearly enchanted, but I didn’t sense magic on any of his other gear. Not even a shield sigil. He was here for a party, not a battle.

The crystal is a power source, I processed. It was an older style of enchantment, common for equipment found inside some of the spires and elemental temples. It was still possible for Enchanters to craft items with crystals to power them directly, but they’d fallen out of favor due to the broader availability of other materials. Crystals like the one in the pommel were still obtainable and extremely useful, but expensive.

Jerome was expecting me to have gear, but nothing else. He probably thought I’d know a thing or two about dueling from my family, but that as a young man with an Enchanter attunement, I’d be underwhelming in a fight. He probably planned to embarrass me, maybe break a few limbs to make me head home in shame.

I cracked my neck, feeling the usual ache that followed.

That was the full extent of any discomfort I expected to suffer in the process of this duel.

When we stepped outside the manor doors, I half expected to be teleported out of the spire, but the scenario apparently included an “outside” area.

We stepped into the middle of a large, grassy circle, facing off while someone ran to fetch the archduke and ask for his permission.

In the meantime, a Priest of Katashi approached, explained to me that she had agreed to adjudicate the duel, and asked to ensure I had not accepted the duel under duress. I was surprised by the question, but said that I was fine with the duel. I might not have at first, but now? This guy was looking pretty punchable, and I was beginning to get excited.

“Corin!” Sera yelled at me as she stomped out of the house. Apparently, Patrick had sent someone to get her while I was distracted. “What have you done?”

“Oh, hey. Got into a bit of a duel. Won’t be long.”

She glowered at me. “What is it that I told you about making life- altering decisions without asking me? Oh, right. Don’t. That’s what you agreed to.”

I rolled my eyes. “That was about things in relationship to your love life. So, unless you’re about to marry into Jerome’s house…”

“And about anything that affects House Cadence? Which this does?” I shrugged and leaned closer. “If it was real, sure.”

“Killing you would be real, Corin. And impact House Cadence.”

“Bah. Look at him.” I waved at the other man, who was currently bragging to a group of his peers. “I’ve got this.”

“Corin. You must know this is a terrible idea.”

“Is it, really?” I shook my head. “This seems like a pretty important part of a scenario. This is almost tailored to our family. Suspiciously so.”

“Oh, yes. It’s tailored perfectly for you to duel your way through the entire country of Edria. That sounds like a great plan, Corin. I leave you alone for five minutes, and suddenly you’re about ready to restart the Six Years War.”

“That’s a bit hyperbolic, don’t you think?”

“Yes, Corin. I do think. That seems to be something you’ve forgotten to do. You should bow out. Apologize.”

“Nope. Not happening.” I shook my head. “But hey, look on the bright side. If he does maim me, you’ll be a much better candidate to take over the house! I mean, both in this fictional scenario and the real world.”

“Ugh.” She threw up her hands. “You are impossible sometimes.” “Impossible for him to beat in a duel, yes.”

She frowned at me. “What’s gotten into you? You’re never like this.”

“What? Confident? Assertive?” I shook my head. “You’re forgetting when I challenged Teft. I might be a little overly cautious from time to time, Sera. I might even be annoyingly cautious. But this? I can do this, Sera.” I straightened up a bit. “Let me show you why I’m worthy to bear the name Cadence.”

She gave me a sad look and shook her head. “I never doubted your worth of any name, you know. I’d just rather have a living brother than a dead one.”

“You worry too much. Trust me. Under control. Enjoy the show.”

She sighed and walked off. I assumed she was going to see if she could find Meltlake and get some assurances that the professor would step in if it looked like I was going to die.

I appreciated the effort, but it wasn’t necessary.

A few minutes later, the archduke came down himself to approve the duel. Archduke Verena was not, in fact, the same person I’d seen Meltlake talking to earlier. He was a huge man with a barrel-chest and a beard two sizes too big for his face. He wore a short, weird-looking cape that was probably enchanted, and otherwise some ostentatious-looking light red and purple garb. He grinned brightly as he came over to me, slapped a hand on my shoulder and said, “I’m looking forward to watching you die!”

He said it in what was possibly the friendliest tone I’d ever heard, and somehow it actually felt friendly, in spite of his words.

I shuddered briefly at his touch as he walked away. He gave some words of actual encouragement to Jerome, then declared proudly, “I approve this duel!”

With that, he walked to near the house entrance, smacked his hands together, and licked his lips.

Well, that was disturbing.

I spoke to Patrick briefly, then the Priest of Katashi called my opponent and me to the center of the field.

“You will fight to submission. Either fighter can yield at any time, either verbally or by thrusting a hand into the air with two fingers extended. I will call the duel early if I feel one combatant is too injured to continue. If I call the duel over, you must cease fighting immediately. Do you both understand the rules?”

“Yes.” I acknowledged.

“Of course.” Jerome scoffed. Then he turned to me, a cruel grin stretching across his face.

“Bow to each other,” the priest instructed.

We bowed. The priest walked away, leaving us to take positions about ten feet apart.

Then the priest spoke one final, life-changing word. “Begin.”

***Three.

That’s the number I was up to in my mental count when the start of the match was called. It was a little early, but I moved immediately regardless.

Detect Aura. Jump.

I surged forward in an instant, slamming my transference-charged fist into Jerome’s gut. The force of the blow bent him over my hand, but didn’t hurl him backward like I’d hoped. My transference-infused punch hadn’t been fully charged, and as an Executioner, he must have reinforced his body with enhancement mana — the exact opposite type — which nullified much of the force.

Still, knocking the wind out of my opponent right away was pretty satisfying. I heard gasps from the crowd as well as a scream, the latter of which seemed needlessly extreme for a mere punch.

I managed a swing that clipped his chin with my other fist before he recovered, but that barely did any damage. His shroud and whatever body- enhancement effect was on him served to soak up a considerable amount of my force.

His hand moved quickly, but not to draw his sword.

Haste.

I jumped backward, brushing my hand across the crystal pommel of his weapon as I moved. I barely got out of range before a warbling blade of near-invisible essence sliced through the air in front of my throat. If I hadn’t been familiar with the technique and dodged quickly, it might have spelled a terrifying end to my life-defining banter.

With a snarl — obviously his favorite way to show emotion — he followed the initial swing with several more, his aura blade making a zing as it sliced through the air. He kept aiming for my face, which was frankly a little annoying, both because of the distraction and because of his obvious intent to give me an embarrassing sort of maiming.

Fortunately, he never got close.

He was faster than the average fighter — enhancement mana was good for that.

But I’d spent the last year sparring against Derek Hartigan and Keras Selyrian.

This man was no Derek Hartigan. He wasn’t even close to a Keras Selyrian.

He wasn’t even a Magnus Cadence.

When his next furious swing missed, I hurled a blast of transference mana at his face. It smashed him backward, sending him sliding satisfyingly toward the edge of the grass.

“How?” He hissed. “How do you know how to fight against an Executioner’s blade? No Valian uses them!”

I gave him a smug smile. “What, like this?”

I extended a hand, reshaping my shroud into a blade shape and funneling transference mana into it. I’d never been as good at this technique as Keras or even Mara, but I’d picked up the basics. And I wasn’t actually intending to fight with it: this was showmanship, plain and simple.

It had more than the intended effect. He let out a roar, charging straight toward me. I parried his swing with my own aura blade, dodged to his side, and left a hairline cut along his right leg. When he spun, I used my off-hand to hurl another blast of transference mana at him. He sliced through it, but that left his aura blade in a downward position, and I already knew his speed.

I was faster.

In a moment, I had an aura blade beneath his chin. “Yield.”

“Never.” He spat, swinging upward with utter disregard for the position he was in. He was gambling that I wouldn’t take the opening and slit his throat.

He was right, but that didn’t mean I wouldn’t cut something.

I pulled my blade downward, slicing open his uniform shirt and parrying at the same time. I left a long trail of crimson across his chest, but that wasn’t the real damage. I’d sliced his badge of rank in half in the process.

As we both recoiled from the aura blades colliding, he looked downward in disbelief. I could have taken that opening, but I didn’t.

Instead, I raised my own aura blade and spoke again. “Again, I offer you the chance to yield.”

“You have my answer!” He swung his aura blade, but it wasn’t close enough to hit me. I knew what was coming next. He probably thought his shockwave technique was original. I thought mine was, too, before I’d seen literally every high-level sword fighter I’d met using it.

The only difficulty was that being a ranged attack, it had more than one possible target. I could have dodged easily…and if I did, it would have gone straight into the crowd. Even splitting it in half with my own swing would have potentially allowed for collateral damage. If someone without an attunement got hit, they were going to have a very bad day.

Accelerated Computation.

The spell wasn’t designed for combat, but I’d known from the start it might have combat applications. I’d practiced using it to help use Haste more effectively, but this was my first time trying it in a real fight.

Frankly speaking, using it in this way was a gamble, but it was one I liked better than taking the swing head-on.

As his shockwave approached, my mind raced.

Projectile width: One point two meters.

Rate of movement: two hundred and eighteen hundred meters per second.

Angle…My mind flashed with numbers. My hand moved. My blade widened and cut.

His shockwave vanished as my own blade passed through it at the exact angle and size necessary to neutralize it harmlessly.

Release Accelerated Computation.

I staggered backward, thrown off by the unexpected use of the technique.

“Who…are you?” He stared at me with wide-eyed wonder, but his expression didn’t last. “No matter. You cannot match me sword-for-sword.” He drew his weapon while I continued to wobble in place. My vision blurred, and I barely managed to hold back from vomiting. The amount of data that I’d burned into my brain in those few moments had beenstaggering.

Release Haste.

I steadied a bit after removing my Haste spell, but that was a mixed blessing. Without it, keeping up with Jerome would be significantly harder.

He ripped his sword free from his scabbard. As I watched, black energy ignited along the sword’s edge, rippling across the surface in waves. With twelve different runes, it was a stronger weapon than I’d originally expected. Sunstone-level, at least, and the black aura implied it was designed for countering magic.

It looked like the sort of fancy weapon that would have a special name, like “Spellshear” or “Magic’s End” or “Mr. Stabbington”. From Jerome’s expression, just having it drawn was adding to his confidence. He was probably thinking “this sword will cut right through shrouds and other magical defenses”. If so, he was right, but not quite in the way that he was hoping.

He assumed a stance I’d been expecting from the start — his right hand holding Mr. Stabbington, his left hand extended with an aura blade that shifted and crackled in the air. His aura flashed from crimson to orange, indicating he’d stopped suppressing his shroud to demonstrate his full strength. He’d be better defended now and have more power to fuel his shroud-forged blade.

Normally, that might have been worrying, but I actually felt a bit relieved that he was only a Sunstone. If he’d been a Citrine, I might have run into more difficulty……But probably not, given how easily I’d been able to predict his moves. I could already see his next step, and my heart beat faster as I readied myself for my own move.

Jerome was planning to come at me with both weapons at the same time, then adjust the length and width of his aura blade to cut me when I didn’t expect it. It was a reasonable enough dueling strategy, ordinarily difficult to counter even for someone who was familiar with the style.

It was, however, heavily reliant on excellent weapon control — and Mr.

Stabbington wasn’t feeling very cooperative.

It happened remarkably fast. Jerome lunged, apparently forgetting that impaling someone on a blazing death sword wasn’t “non-lethal”. I side- stepped that, parried a swipe from his off-hand that came after an absolutely unnecessary spin, and then kicked at his leg. He jumped backward, avoiding the kick, and raised Mr. Stabbington over his head.

He struck an impressive image, holding that black-blazing sword, for just an instant before the detonation happened.

“Ablahblah!” That’s my best impression of what his screaming sounded like when black flames exploded from the sword’s pommel, engulfing his hands, arms, and hair. It’s not a great impression, but use your imagination.

Anyway, a moment later, he was on the ground and rolling around. Mr. Stabbington, his betrayal of his wielder complete, fell free from his grip. The sword was damaged, but I was pleased to see that I’d chosen my approach properly; the sword wasn’t entirely destroyed, and the explosion itself had been small enough that it hadn’t even engulfed Jerome’s entire body.

I extended an aura blade to his rolling body, waiting and watching.

Hm, maybe that was a little much. Should I freeze the fire off him, or would that make it worse? I’ll give it a second.

I waited.

He continued burning and screaming. I heard a horrified gasp from the priest before she managed to yell, “The match is over! Someone put him out!”

Someone quickly conjured some water on him, which didn’t do anything. It was Sera that actually managed to put him out, calling a hail of ice that dispelled the black flames.

I let my aura blade collapse back into my shroud. I would have sheathed my sword at that point, too, but I’d never drawn it in the first place.

The priest turned to me with an expression that showed a mixture of horror and awe. “The winner of the duel is…Corin of House Cadence.”

***A group of other Edrians took Jerome away in the aftermath of the duel. Some of them gave me hard looks, and I suspect a couple of them nearly challenged me to a follow-up duel on the spot — a consequence I’d failed to consider before.

Judging social ramifications has never been my strength.

Still, not all of them gave me dirty looks. One of them even offered me a quick salute when none of the others were looking, which I hastily returned.

I’d hoped to leverage my winning the duel to extract more information out of Jerome directly, but it was looking like that wouldn’t be possible. Itturns out that detonating even one part of a sword someone is holding is generally pretty bad for their health, especially when said weapon carries powerful shroud-piercing enchantments. Recovering was going to take him a while, possibly longer than the evening.

So, I’d need to exploit my victory in other ways. I’d look for anyone I’d seemingly impressed…and then there was the matter of a reasonable demand by the winner.

With the loser incapacitated, I went to speak to his second, Maria Wolff. I was a little surprised that she hadn’t left with the group that was taking care of the injured man, but it made things convenient.

“Well-fought, Lord Cadence,” she said as I approached, tipping her head. “You performed above my expectations.”

“Thank you, Lady Wolff.” I returned the gesture. “I hope that this incident will not cause any enmity between us.”

She raised a hand to her mouth and laughed. “Oh, hardly. That was likely the highlight of my evening. The man was insufferable!”

I gave her a strange look. “If…you disliked him, why would you serve as his second?”

Maria gave me a scoff. “What, as if you’ve never made a decision because of politics? Please. House Schmidt serves House Wolff. It was an honor to serve as a second for one of our loyal and righteous vassals.” She rolled her eyes. “Believe me, if it were plausible, I would have fought on your behalf instead.”

“Then…frankly speaking, why would he choose you? He seemed to have a loyal entourage.”

Maria sighed. “Yes, yes, of course he does. Men like him always have their boot-scrapers. I believe he hoped to impress me with his performance. Perhaps he was hoping I would…” She shuddered. “You can guess.”

“Ah. Right.” I shook my head. “It’s been a while since I’ve been to one of these events. I’d forgotten the amount of…marriage jockeying?”

“Marriage jockeying! What a hilarious and perfect term for it.” She laughed again, then glanced toward someone else nearby. “This has been a pleasure, but I can only be social with the enemy for so long. At least in public.” She coughed politely, her implication clear. “I’m sure you understand.”

“I do, thank you. For the moment, I believe there’s just the business of any disputes you may have about the match?”

“I have none. You acquitted yourself well and with honor. I don’t know quite how you made his sword explode, but it was perhaps one of the funniest things I’ve seen in a duel. And no, I won’t be demanding satisfaction if you sabotaged it in advance. That would be a feat of ingenuity worthy of a duelist in itself.”

I grinned. “I didn’t, but I appreciate that nonetheless.”

“There is one more thing,” she noted. “You may demand something of the loser. And given that he is incapacitated, it falls to me to adjudicate what is ‘reasonable’.”

I’d been considering that for a while, but I’d planned to ask when the man recovered. This was easier. Given that she didn’t like him, I suspected she’d be happy to take the chance to tweak his nose in a way that he couldn’t complain about.

Asking Maria for a political favor was within reason, but given the temporary nature of this event, I took a more pragmatic approach. And so, after a few more words were exchanged, I claimed my prize.

One  slightly  damaged  magic  sword  —  the  distinguished  Mr.

Stabbington — went straight into the Jaden Box.

Maria and I parted ways — although I noted her throwing a look back in my direction as she headed into the building — and I returned to my own second.

“That was amazing!” Patrick cheered. “How’d you make his sword explode?”

Patrick was, it seemed, still not quite as subtle of a second as Maria.

I lifted a finger to my lips. “Ssh. I’d rather keep my role in that a little vaguer. Equipment sabotage isn’t illegal, exactly, but it could be considered dishonorable.”

“Oh, oh. Sorry.” He leaned over and whispered far too loudly in a conspiratorial tone. “So, how’d you do it?”

“Right after I punched him, I touched his sword when I was retreating. When I did that, I attached mana threads. Most of them broke during the fight, but the others were stable enough that I was able to make a connection to the pommel crystal. From there, I had some options. I could have overloaded the crystal and made it explode, but I wanted to keep itmostly intact. So, I just pulled some of the power out — and rather than move it into another object, I just released it into the air. His sword had a lot of runes, but none of them were anti-tampering.”

“That’s…pretty incredible, Corin. I would have never even considered doing something like that.”

“He’s right, you know.” Sera walked up behind me. “I have to admit, you didn’t disappoint me in the slightest this time.”

“That may be the nicest thing you’ve ever said to me.”

“Don’t expect me to make it a habit.” Sera smirked. “And Corin? Please do ask me before risking yourself again. That was spectacular, but there could be consequences, even for a victory.”

Based on the expressions of some of the Edrian onlookers, I suspected she was right. “You’re right, sorry. I got a little ahead of myself. I think it’ll work out, though.”

“I think so, too. This time. Let’s get back into the party and see if we can make the most out of it.”

I nodded. “Right. Let’s go.”

We exchanged words with a few more people, then headed back inside. As we walked, I saw a number of eyes following me with newfound interest and respect.

I had to admit, it felt pretty good.

***As we walked back into the house, I found Dalen Mitsurugi waiting for me at the door. I had, admittedly, almost forgotten about his handsome face during the duel itself — but not because he had an attunement like his descendant’s. He wasn’t blending in at all, I simply had been that focused on the fight.

“You performed wonderfully out there.” Mitsurugi made a near-silent clapping gesture as I walked closer. “I should like to see you fight again at some point. Perhaps you or your retainer would be kind enough to give me a sparring match later this evening?”

“I would be delighted to do so once I am sufficiently refreshed.” I nodded in spite of my own hesitation. Sera had been right; one duel was never the end. “Patrick can, of course, speak for himself.”

“Of course.” Mitsurugi nodded in approval, then turned to Patrick. “Shall we?”

“I, uh…right now?” He asked.

“I see no reason why not. Unless your lord has an immediate need of you?”

I shrugged at Patrick. “If you want to go spar with him, you’re welcome to. I’ll be fine. I need a chance to chat with Sera, anyway. I’ll catch up with you afterward.”

“Oh…okay.” Patrick nodded to me, then turned back to Mitsurugi and waved toward the doorway. “After you, then.”

“Excellent.” Mitsurugi stepped outside of the house, with Patrick following.

Sera waved ahead toward the library and resumed walking. I followed behind her until we found a quiet spot to chat. Along the way, I received congratulations from many of the house staff, as well as a few other nobles.

Notably, I did not get any from the other Valians, who seemed to be watching me cautiously from a distance. That was interesting and perhaps a bit worrying.

When we arrived back in the library and found a quiet spot, Sera glanced around suspiciously before saying anything.

“You think we’re being watched?” I asked.

“After that? You can be sure of it. You don’t happen to have one of those nifty silence enchantments like Cecily’s umbrella handy?”

I shook my head. “No, and I don’t have the right crystals to make one. The standard one uses perception mana, which neither of us has. I know some variants with sound mana, but we don’t have that, either.”

Sera groaned. “Okay. We’ll do it the old-fashioned way.” “Which is…?”

“Whispering, Corin. I mean whispering.”

“Oh.” I didn’t think that would be a particularly effective measure, but it was better than nothing. I leaned in closer. “I’ve discovered a terrible secret.”

Sera raised an eyebrow. “Oh?”

“Yes, Sera. The secret is…Edria doesn’t like us very much.”

Sera snorted. “Be serious, Corin. We actually have limited time here.” “Sorry, sorry. Teasing calms my nerves. Okay. What’ve you got?”

She rubbed her forehead in apparent frustration. “Well, as ludicrous as your ‘secret’ was, it’s actually somewhat relevant. Your little duel was amicrocosm of the atmosphere of this place. It’s not just us — everyone here has enemies.”

“More so than a usual archduchy-level political gathering?”

“Yes, absolutely. It’s almost as if someone deliberately curated the guest list to cause conflict. We’re not even the worst of it.”

I frowned. “I have a difficult time picturing how that would be possible.”

“I realize you have difficulty imagining how actual people feel about things, dear brother, but try to be creative.”

“Right. Well, my assessment as an emotionless automaton is that you could try to be more direct. Trying to turn everything into a jab at me is inefficient.”

“Fair point.” She nodded in a surprisingly agreeable fashion. “Okay. So, direct. Mara and I went to try to talk to the young Mistress Verena.”

“And that failed because…” I made a “continue” gesture.

“Now who is making pointless jabs? Anyway, it didn’t. The household staff seemed relieved — almost too relieved — that someone was willing to talk to her.”

“Why?” I frowned. “Is she like, notoriously obnoxious or something?” “No, she’s not like you.” Sera managed a completely deadpan tone. “Or,rather, they aren’t anything like you.” “They? Oh, they take after Wydd?”

“No, I meant ‘they’ in the plural sense. There are two daughters.”

I blinked. “Two? But they only mentioned one debut. And a debut is usually on a birthday. And they can’t both have the…” My eyes widened. “No. You’re joking.”

“Afraid not.” Sera shook her head. “We have a cursed pair on our hands.”

I think my face might have paled. Cursed pairs — that is, siblings that are born at the same time — are forbidden by the sacred scriptures in the most absolute possible terms. We’re not even supposed to use the more common word for them while we’re inside a spire, lest we draw the goddess ire.

I’m not superstitious, but I’m still going to avoid saying anything else, since I know it makes people uncomfortable.

Anyway, given the severity of the scriptural prohibitions on the concept, I was more than a little surprised when Sera explained the situation. “What? No. An archduke kept a cursed pair? You think we would have heard about something like that, even if it’s historical.”

“Actually…I think I did hear about this in class. There was a big uproar when they were born. Apparently, the archduke was called into court and asked to pick one, but he refused. He was censured, I think, and threatened. I don’t recall all the details. Even I didn’t put that much effort into remembering ancient Edrian politics.”

I exhaled a breath. “Okay. So, the archduke is planning to…what, debut them both, and make a statement? That could cause absolute chaos.”

“Precisely. I believe he hopes to make allies with other nations here — because he might not be an Edrian archduke much longer.”

I exhaled a breath. “That’s…wow. Okay. There’s a lot to unpack there.

There’s a Priest of Katashi here. What’s he thinking?”

“He’s probably hoping that the temple will support the fact that technically, cursed pairs do not have to be executed. There’s precedent for it.”

I snorted. “Not a good strategy, unless this particular priest is…” “Famously liberal? I already checked into that. Akane Saito. She’s areformer, at least later in life. Also, notably, an ancestor of Haruka Saito, who Keras encountered in that tournament in Edria. The archduke very likely contacted Akane with hopes that she’d make a public ruling of support. A direct and public statement that the cursed pair is ‘approved’ by Katashi might help prevent the emperor from, say, taking his title away due to heresy.”

I frowned, thinking back. “Wasn’t Akane Saito executed for heresy when she tried to make some kind of schism in the priesthood?”

“Not yet she wasn’t. But I suspect she’s already famous at this point. It’s possible that her eventual end was tied to this event.”

I exhaled a deep breath. “Okay. Does she currently have the authority to make a statement to authorize a cursed pair to…well, exist?”

Sera shook her head. “I don’t know yet. I didn’t catch her rank. She’s not the hierophant, certainly, so she could be overruled.”

I exhaled a breath. “Okay. So we should brace for both political and religious conflicts over all this. Lovely. Wait, so did you actually meet thedaughters?”

Sera nodded. “Of course. While you freeze hearts, I warm them.” “And what’s their own disposition?”

“An excellent question. Emma Verena is the very model of a modern seventeen-year-old. She’s excited about the party and her biggest worries were picking exactly the perfect dress and figuring out who to dance with. The answer is me, by the way. I will be dancing with her tonight.”

“You move quickly.” I gave her an appreciative nod.

“A noblewoman has to have aspirations, doesn’t she? And I would make an excellent archduchess.”

I rolled my eyes. “Unless you plan to add Chronomancer to your attunement list, I don’t think you’ll be making that title last very long. More importantly, there are no other siblings, then?”

“No. Just the two daughters. And the mother is dead, so don’t ask.” “…And you think they’re going to let you marry Emma? What aboutkeeping the house going?”

Sera snorted. “We can always adopt. Or have other spouses. Or maybe get ourselves a harem? I saw a couple of guys from Caelford that—”

“Question retracted.” I exhaled a breath. “What can you tell me about the other sister?”

“Ah.” Sera glanced from side-to-side, strangely nervous, before looking back to me. “She’s the more difficult of the two. Emery is the sickly one and undoubtedly the cursed of the pair.”

“Their parents named a cursed pair Emma and Emery? What kind of sadists are they?”

Sera snorted. “Don’t worry, they’ll be perfectly easy to tell apart. Emma is tanned and athletic, with frankly enviable musculature. Emery looks like she’s never seen a day in the sun.”

“You said Emery is sickly? How bad?”

“She has difficulty even walking on her own for significant distances. Fortunately, when she stumbled upstairs, Mara was there to catch her. She now appears to have acquired her own personal hero.”

I smiled at the thought. “Good. Is that why Mara missed the duel?”

“It is. When last I checked, Mara was regaling Emery with tales of high adventure.”

“That’s good…because I’ve noted some concerning patterns with this place, and I think my initial impressions on the scenario goal might have been off.”

“Oh?” Sera raised an eyebrow. “I was assuming we were supposed to make a good impression with the locals. The first trap would have been preparing only one gift, rather than two, if we assumed there was only one daughter. And beyond that, avoid being killed in the various intrigues in place.”

I hadn’t even considered the idea of multiple gifts yet — I’d been too distracted by something I thought was more pressing. “That all might be a part of it, but based on the books and the crafting rooms…I think we might have gotten the genre of this party wrong.”

“The genre? What do you mean?”

Now I was the one glancing to the side nervously. “The titles of the books and the materials in the crafting rooms have a common element: thieves and assassins. I don’t think we’re here to have fun banter and get you an archduchess title, Sera.”

She shrugged. “That’d be an added benefit, but please, continue with your dramatic reveal.”

“This,” I spun to make an encompassing gesture toward the party at a whole, “isn’t a political fantasy, a romance, or even a thriller. We’ve walked straight into the middle of a murder mystery.”

“But Corin, is it really a murder mystery if there hasn’t been a murder yet?” Just as she finished saying that, every light in the building died at once, plunging us into utter darkness. “Oh.” After a pause, Sera added, “So much for my archduchy.”

