CHAPTER XIV – TRUE OR FALSE

Distant screams interrupted my undoubtedly witty reply. I couldn’t tell where they originated from, but it wasn’t nearby. I also couldn’t tell if they were “ack, I’m being stabbed” screams or merely “the lights went out suddenly” screams. Those are surprisingly difficult to discern without seeing the source.

My sword sang out of my scabbard as I took a defensive stance. The aura along Selys-Lyann’s blade wasn’t much of a light source, but it was better than nothing.

Sera had a much better approach. “Vanniv, I summon you.”

The karvensi appeared immediately, scanning the area. “Sera! You lovely creature. Why is it so dark and quiet?”

“Party. Possible murder. Need fire,” she instructed him.

“Ah, one of those parties.” He lifted a hand, conjuring a ball of fire, then taking a closer look at the area. “Did…you just have me conjure fire in a library?”

“Priorities, Vanniv. Now, stay quiet a moment and guard us.”

With the light that Vanniv provided, I got a better look at the library itself. We weren’t the only ones present, and I saw a few other people pressing themselves into corners and taking defensive positions. Others looked less bothered, simply continuing to quietly chat. One white-haired guy just kept reading a book. He looked weirdly familiar, but not in a way I could place.

I didn’t see the librarian, but in honesty, I didn’t know what the librarian looked like. I’d kind of ignored Patrick’s whole exchange with them.

The most important part was that I didn’t see any immediate threats. “I think we should move. Do you know where the sisters are?”

“I know where they were before the duels. Upstairs.” Sera bit her lip, seeming to deliberate. “Follow me. Vanniv, prepare to intercept any attacks coming in my direction.”

“Of course, of course.” He grinned, waving amiably at some of the cowering partygoers with his free hand, then followed as Sera began to lead the way out of the library.

The party was, predictably, an absolute mess. More screams had followed the first, but I got the distinct impression at least some of them were just people jumping at movements. There couldn’t be that many assassins in one party.

…Could there?I heard some shouted orders in Edrian, but I couldn’t understand them.

My Edrian was rusty at best, and the voice itself was distant.

I cautiously scanned from left to right as Sera led us through the building. We past several groups that were clustered together in defensive positions, often with weapons drawn. House guards had blocked the front door, and I could see some pushing through the house, but no one attempted to stop us.

Sera moved at a rapid pace, not quite running, but walking fast. She took us up a stairway, which made me nervous — she didn’t have Ceris drawn (presumably because it was too conspicuous), and if someone attacked, an unarmed fighter being in the front of the group was bad.

A pair of guards ran toward us down the stairs, but mercifully, they simply rushed past as we stepped out of their path.

I tensed, moving rapidly to catch up to her. “Sera, maybe I should—” “We’re almost there, keep moving.” We reached a landing at the secondfloor and she stepped off the stairwell. There were three directions to go on this floor — the landing had paths to the left and right and there was a large set of double doors straight ahead. Sera moved to the left, moving with certainty toward a smaller door at the end of a hallway. The doorway was open wide — and by that, I mean that the door itself had been ripped out of the frame entirely, then tossed aside with casual ease.

Sera rushed toward the door.

“You’re gonna want to stop right there.”

The inside of the room was tough to see from my angle and in the relative dark, but the basic features were clear enough. It was a noblewoman’s bedroom, but in utter disarray. Objects were strewn over the floor, and toward the back, I could barely make out the forms of two figures. A frail young woman had her back pressed against the far wall, cowering.

“S’okay, Emery. Doesn’t matter how many of them there are. I’ll protect you.” Standing in front of the cowering woman in a defensive stance was awarrior with a bloodied lip and bleeding marks all across her arms. A blade of pure mana extended from her right hand as Sera continued to approach, then vanished the moment Vanniv got close enough to bring the fire and illuminate us.

“Sera. Vanniv.” Mara lowered her bleeding arms immediately. “And Corin, too. That’s better.”

The woman behind her let out an ‘eep’ and shrank back further as we continued walking toward them.

“Hey, hey. It’s okay.” Mara turned toward the woman behind her, putting a hand on her shoulder. “You remember Sera, right? That’s just her summon and her brother.”

Emery Verena gave Mara an uncertain look. “I’m…if you’re sure.”

“It’s fine. I practically work for these two, but you can stay behind me if you’d like.”

Emery nodded rapidly.

Mara turned back toward us, resuming a more casual defensive posture in front of the terrified noble. “Sera, status?”

“Party is a mess. Lights out everywhere. Assassins came for her?”

“Yep. Two of them. Don’t think they expected me to be here. Had a bit of a scuffle. One vanished, the other jump belled out.”

I took a moment to process that. “Vanished? Like invisibility?”

She shook her head. “Don’t think so. I hit him real hard, then he poofed out. Think he was a shadow construct, simulacra, or something like it. Heard screams from other rooms, don’t think Emery was the only target.”

“My sister.” Emery’s eyes widened. “We have to…”

“I’ll go for her,” Sera offered. “Corin, can you get Mara healed?”

I winced. “I’ll throw a regen spell on her, but my manual healing skills are awful.”

“I’ll take whatever you’ve got.” Mara extended her arms. “Sigil is working, but it still hurts, you know?”

I walked closer, putting a hand on Mara’s. “Lesser Regeneration.” My hand flashed with green mana. “Emery, you hurt?”

She shook her head silently.

I turned to find Sera and Vanniv on their way out of the room. “We’re going. Corin, stay with Mara in case reinforcements show up. And in case she’s poisoned.”

I blinked. I hadn’t considered poison, and if I’m being honest, my regeneration spell probably made poison worse. “Uh, I don’t really have any way to good way to detect or treat poison.”

“Figure it out. I’m going now.” Sera left the room, Vanniv trailing behind her and carrying our only source of light.

I groaned. “Okay. Mara, do you feel poisoned?”

“Little lightheaded, but leaning ‘no’. Think you could guard the door a sec while I wrap my arms?”

“Yep.” I headed to stand near the doorway, Selys-Lyann in hand. While Mara worked on wrapping her injuries, I mentally searched through my options for poison diagnosis and treatment. There weren’t really any good generalized antidotes that handled all forms of poison, so I didn’t have any. Water magic was generally the most effective for that sort of thing, followed by light magic. I couldn’t use either, and neither could Mara.

Light magic is available at Citrine-level for my Arbiter attunement. I could…no. That’s too much of a gamble, even for me. I don’t understand it well enough yet.

I did have other useful things I could do, though.

With my other hand, I reached into my bag, flipped open the Jaden Box, and whispered. “Retrieve lantern.”

A lantern appeared. I set it down, then retrieved flint and steel from my pack to light it.

I took a few steps away from the doorway, setting Selys-Lyann down, then lit the lantern. I left the lantern in the center of the room, picked my sword up, and then walked back to the doorway to resume guarding. “Don’t think I have any good poison treatment options.”

“I’ll help.” Emery put her hands on Mara’s injured arms. A blue glow washed over the room, brighter than the lantern light. A moment later, Mara stepped forward to catch Emery as the frail woman slumped toward the floor.

“Emery! You didn’t have to do that. We don’t even know if I’m poisoned!”

“Need to…help you…somehow.” Emery’s voice was barely audible. “You…saved me.”

Then Emery fainted.

Mara grunted, lifting Emery and setting her on a nearby bed. Normally, carrying the frail woman wouldn’t have bothered Mara in the slightest, but Mara was still dealing with open arm wounds.

“She okay?” I asked, mentally calculating mana costs. A basic poison- curing water spell shouldn’t have been nearly expensive enough to cause someone to faint. Presumably, Emery had just cast something that was above her safe mana threshold…and probably from a heart mark, given that she’d fainted. That was bad.

Mara winced, lowering her head to Emery’s chest. “Heart is beating.

She didn’t have to…ugh.”

“Switch places real quick. I’ll give her some mana, might help stabilize her.”

Mara moved to the doorway, then I moved to the bedside. A quick Detect Aura showed a heart mark, as I’d suspected. It was harder to recharge someone’s mana without direct contact, but given the location, I settled for putting a hand on her forehead and concentrating. A brief activation of my Arbiter attunement later, I’d transferred about ten mana into Emery.

Briefly, I missed my mana watch. If we had it, I could have tested her mana level, then better adjudicated how much mana to safely give her.

Maybe I should make another one. It wouldn’t be difficult, but…Mara waved me over to the door. I took up my defensive position, then Mara swapped back to sitting by the bed.

“Foolish girl. Don’t you die on me.” She squeezed Emery’s hand. Then, together, we waited in the lantern light.

***I don’t know the technical term for a group of dozens of guards. I’m going to go with “swarm”, because that’s what it felt like when they arrived at the bedroom door a few tense minutes later. They escorted the absolute mammoth of a man that I’d earlier identified as Archduke Verena, his bright yellow aura flaring violently around him.

I stood calmly in the doorway as he shot forward. “Cadence. Stand down, now.”

After a tense moment while I debated if he could be an imposter, I lowered my sword. He raised a hand, and—“It’s okay, Father. He’s protecting me.” Emery’s voice was quiet, but audible. I hadn’t even realized she’d woken up.

His hand came down.

Was he about to take a cheap shot at me?My eyes narrowed. He gave no confirmation of his prior intent, he simply gave me a nod and brushed past me. His expression noticeably softened when he saw his daughter unharmed.

“Your sister?” He asked.

“I don’t know. Cadence’s sister went to check. Please don’t attack her.”

The archduke spun toward his guards, snapping his fingers and making a waving gesture. A group of the guard broke off immediately, only a pair of them remaining behind with the archduke.

Archduke Verena spun toward me. “You will tell me what you know.

Right now.”

“Someone attacked her,” I jerked a thumb at the archduke’s daughter, “but my friend fought the assailant off. My sister went to check on her sister after I arrived at your daughter’s request.”

“Is this true?” The archduke asked his daughter.

“Y—yes, father. Mara was very brave.” Emery cast another quick glance in Mara’s direction.

The archduke nodded. “You have my gratitude, young miss.” Mara blushed brightly. “Just doin’ what’s right, m’lord archduke.”

That wasn’t quite the right form of address, but the archduke didn’t seem to mind. He was more focused on immediate matters. “You know nothing of the attackers?”

It was a pointed question, backed by a sudden and unnecessary flare of the archduke’s aura for effect.

Mara hesitated, so I answered. Fortunately, my answer was an honest one. “No. Not the slightest idea.”

“We shall see. You two, wait here and assist young Master Cadence and Miss…Mara, was it…with guarding the room. I will see to the rest of the household.” The archduke spun with a dramatic flourish of his cape and exited the room.

Then we waited. The guards were tense, but not strictly unfriendly.

Emery kept quiet, remaining in her bed, looking understandably terrified.

After another couple minutes, the lights came back on. We didn’t relax. When Archduke Verena swept back into the room, trailing an Emery- lookalike close behind him, Emery showed uncharacteristic energy when she shot to her feet and rushed toward the girl that was undoubtedly her sister.

“You’re okay!”

The stronger sister tensed at Emery’s embrace, then sighed and pulled her close. “I’m not the vulnerable one.”

“I know…I was just…” Emery lowered her gaze.

“It’s okay. I’m here. You’re safe now.” Emma Verena pulled her sister close.

Archduke Verena turned toward his daughters, giving Mara a scrutinizing look. “That remains to be seen. Laurence, Tenor, see to locking down the building. Cordray, take the remainder of the guard and see that our guests are escorted into individual guest rooms. Use any necessary means.”

It was only at that point that Sera, Vanniv, and Patrick slipped through the remainder of the guards and into the room.

“And us?” Sera asked.

“You will remain here for the moment. We must speak privately.”

As the remainder of the guards finished filing out of the room, the archduke shut the door, then turned to us. “You have my gratitude for protecting Emery. There is nothing in the world more valuable than my family. You must understand, however, that this does not mean I trust you.”

Sera quickly nodded. “Of course. Appearing to defend someone could simply be a tactic to hide our true motives. With due respect, however, if we wished your daughters harm, there were multiple chances while they were alone with members of our group.”

“Agreed. Killing them is clearly not your goal.” He balled his hands into fists. “The same cannot be said for anyone else. To this end, I must charge you with assisting me in this investigation. If you truly are not tied with the assassins, this will give you a chance to be helpful. If you are…you should know that I am now prepared, and I will be protecting my daughters personally. There will be no further oversights.”

His statement was backed by another flash of his aura, and with it, a feeling of pressure in the air. I understood the effect, having facedsomething similar and much more potent from Katashi. We all staggered just a bit, but not enough to fall.

“We…understand.” Sera managed. The pressure eased after her reply, and I found myself breathing normally again.

After a few tense moments, I managed to ask another question. “Will you permit us to speak to the woman that accompanied us?”

“Your teacher? Yes, yes, go ahead.” He waved a hand. “Go. Find what you can and return to me. I will be employing others to assist in the search, but if you are the one who provides answers, you will be rewarded.”

“F…father.” Emery walked over to pull on her father’s sleeve. “I want her to stay.” She gestured toward Mara.

Her father raised an eyebrow. “Truly?” He shook his head dismissively, then sighed. “Young lady, if it would not trouble you excessively, my daughter has made a request.”

“Of course, m’lord. Pleased to stay. Assumin’ my own liege will allow it?” She gave Sera a questioning look.

That’s interesting. Did she swear a retainership to Sera, or is she just playing a role?“Please feel free, I can’t possibly get in the way of such a request.” Sera and Mara seemed to exchange something meaningful in their looks, but I didn’t quite catch it.

I turned to the archduke. “Quick question. Can we use magic to try to get the truth from people? Including the invasive sort?”

The archduke raised an eyebrow. “What do you mean by…never mind.

Just do it. It’s better if you don’t tell me in advance.”

I nodded in understanding. “Okay. That leads to another question — how will anyone know we have the authority to do anything?”

The archduke snapped his fingers. “Anthony.”

There was a burst of smoke and the dapper gentleman who had greeted us at the door appeared at the archduke’s side.

I blinked. “Was that…is he…?”

“The head manservant.” Anthony gave a broad smile, bowing at the waist. “How may I serve you, Archduke?”

“This man is going to be interrogating some partygoers who attempted to kill my daughters. You will act with my authority and assume that this process goes smoothly. We will find who was responsible.”

“Understood.” Anthony bowed again to the archduke, then walked over to me. “Shall we?”

“Thank you, Archduke.” I turned to Mara. “And take care, Mara.”

“You got it.” She grinned at me. “Go get ‘em. And whenever you find the culprit, give them an extra punch or two for me.”

***“Well, this is an unexpected event.” Anthony walked ahead of me, hands folded behind his back. “A Valian of House Cadence serving as chief interrogator for an Edrian Archduke. Perhaps tomorrow the world will cease to spin and the sun and moon will decide to take a vacation. Either would be a more likely event.”

“About as likely as an archduke holding a debut party for two daughters of the same age, wouldn’t you say?”

“Ah, just so. It seems you have the measure of events. Good. Your understanding will be required if we are to ascertain the true culprit. And then, perhaps, other skills.” He adjusted each of his pristine white gloves, one at a time.

I raised an eyebrow at the overly loquacious butler.

The way he’d appeared…is he a summoned monster? Or was the archduke’s finger snap just the activation of a magic item that sent Anthony a message?I wasn’t sure which would be more dangerous. An archduke-level summon could be vicious, but if he’d simply appeared after a message, that implied both an impressive reaction time and some sort of teleportation. Invisibility wasn’t out of the question — maybe Anthony had been there the whole time, and I simply hadn’t detected him — but I hadn’t heard anything or detected anything when I’d looked at auras. Even if it was just invisibility, it was good invisibility.

This was not the sort of person I could underestimate. Certainly not when his method of appearance was remarkably similar to what Mara had described as the method of disappearance of one of the assassins.

What are the odds that I’ve just arranged to work with the assassin to find the assassin? I asked myself. High, I concluded. But there was more than one. And it’s not out of the question that he could still assist in the search for the other, or perhaps that he simply has a different skill set.

Wish I could let the others know what I suspect. I really need to get some better messaging items, get them to everyone, and then find some way to make them allow communication without speech. Maybe something telepathic, like Keras and Dawn? Hm.

Once we were downstairs, we quickly found Meltlake standing amidst a practical sea of guards. She had her arms folded and an impatient look on her face.

“Anthony, can you have them release her?” I asked.

“Of course.” The butler nodded. He stepped forward, whispered something to the apparent leader of the guards. They nodded, then quickly dispersed.

“Not bad,” Sera muttered. “I could get used to having this kind of authority. Speaking of which…”

She turned and whispered something to Vanniv.

Vanniv grinned brightly, then bowed to the group and walked off somewhere.

What are they up to?I didn’t have much time to think about it. Meltlake approached us a moment later. “You’re working fast.”

“More of a coincidence of timing, really, and a particular bit of heroism on Mara’s part. Shall we find somewhere to chat?”

Meltlake nodded. “Back to the library.”

We headed back to our corner of the library. The room had been completely emptied out, so we had relative privacy. I still was a bit worried about scrying, but there was nothing easy to do about it.

“Anthony, give us a moment to talk privately?” I asked him.

The butler nodded. “Very well, Master Cadence. Simply say my name and I shall return.”

Then he vanished into the shadows.

…Creepy.

I wasn’t convinced that he was actually gone, but it was about as good as we were going to get.

“So,” Sera gave Meltlake a knowing grin, “how much have you been hiding from us?”

Meltlake shrugged a single shoulder. “Maybe a little.” “You knew this was going to happen.”

“Of course. My studies were never focused on Edrian history, but I do recall some basics about this party. It’s not every day an archduchy is wiped off the map.”

Well, that confirms a few things. I groaned. I didn’t like where this was going.

“Can we get a quick history lesson now, professor?” Sera asked.

“To give you a brief summary: Both daughters were lost. The archduke survived the evening, but not much longer. We are witnessing the fall of the House of Verena.”

I folded my arms. “So, who’s the puppet master?”

“Ah.” Meltlake smiled. “That’s be beauty of it. The assassin’s true identity was never discovered.”

My expression sank. “Seriously?”

“The assassins vanished. The assassinations nearly caused the Six Years War to resume. Ultimately, since they were the clearest suspects, the entire Valian delegation that attended the party were executed by their own government to prevent a war.”

“A…ah. That’s…”

“Worrisome,” Sera finished for me. “So, that means we have a vested interest in actually solving this, rather than simply trying to survive the scenario or assist it in following history’s course.”

“Agreed.” Meltlake nodded. “You seem to already be making some progress in that regard. Are the daughters both intact?”

“Yep,” Patrick replied. “Mara is up there with them.”

“Excellent. We may want to allocate more defenses to that effort at some point. These assassins will have come prepared to handle the archduke himself. They will not be easy to find, nor to fight if they are discovered.”

“Do you think they’ll try to brute force their way in?” Patrick asked. “No. Likely some kind of combination of invisibility, teleportation, thatsort of thing.”

We quickly explained what Mara had seen and caught Meltlake up on the other details of what we’d learned.

Patrick frowned at Meltlake. “You went to talk to the ‘archduke’ earlier, but we saw you talking to someone else. Was that a different archduke?”

“Well-noted, Patrick. That was Archduke Wolff. I was attempting to feel him out as a suspect before the events occurred, since he is one of the highest-ranking figures here, as well as one of the few physical powerhouses that could cause me any difficulty.”

Maria’s father. Hm.

I nodded. “I suppose any archduke always has a motivation to remove any other archduke, in order to gain more personal power.”

“Yes, to some degree. In this case, however, our conversation left me thinking he was unlikely to be involved. He was eager to discuss financial dealings with my family — unless he’s a tremendous actor, he’s not interested in restarting the war. When I spoke about my promising nephew, he wanted to arrange a meeting with his daughter, with obvious implications.”

Sera snorted. “Maybe when we get out of here, we can help set Derek up with an eighty-year-old woman. He could use some discipline.”

Meltlake laughed. “I’ll see what I can do. In the meantime, I think we can safely put Wolff toward the bottom of the list. I wouldn’t call him an ally, but I doubt he will be working against Verena directly here.”

“Other suspects, then?” Patrick asked.

“The other Valians, obviously.” Sera sighed. “It’s likely they were simply innocents that were executed to stop a war historically, but they still are suspects. Valia has always had warmongers that want to resume the conflict, and beyond that, removing an archduchy could destabilize power in the region.”

“True.” I nodded. “What about people on the Edrian side that want to provoke a war? Jerome and his ilk?”

“Jerome himself doesn’t have the resources, but yes, people of his ilk with greater sway exist.” Meltlake nodded in acknowledgement. “Duchess Sheng and Duke Jing are both present at the party. Both are traditionalists that may feel that Edria could benefit from stretching further east.”

“…and aren’t those both archduchies in the future?” Sera asked. “They are.” Meltlake nodded. “Verena’s lands are split between them.”

I exhaled a sigh. Politics like these always gave me a headache. “Okay.

Beyond them…I think we should look into Dalen.”

Patrick shot me a surprised look. “Dalen? Why? Mitsurugi is the wielder of Soulbrand! He wouldn’t…”

Meltlake had a strange expression that implied she knew something, but I didn’t press her. Instead, I simply shook my head at Patrick. “He’s from East Edria…or, rather, Kelridge. At this point in the timeline, opposing Edrian rule would absolutely make sense.”

I didn’t mention that I was thinking about Jin and his own efforts to protect his nation. If Mitsurugi was anything like his descendant, well, assassinating an archduke was absolutely not out of the question.

“Okay. We’re going to need to start questioning groups,” Meltlake noted. “Shall we begin?”

***The partygoers had been separated into “guest” rooms based on what group they arrived with, if any. Some powerful guests were taken to be housed separately. Given the sheer number of guests, that meant a lot of rooms, but the archduke’s home was huge. We’d only seen a small fraction of it when we entered, and beyond the main house, there were also several other buildings on the manor grounds.

We quickly summoned Anthony back — he appeared at the sound of his name, just as he’d claimed he would — and then got to discussing our first interrogation target.

“Who are we starting with?” Patrick asked.

“Start with the top suspects?” I aimed the tone toward Sera and she got my meaning.

“I concur. We need to act before they have a chance to make another move. Given that we don’t want to be seen as playing favorites, as well as the general odds, I suggest we begin with our fellow Valians.”

Anthony looked momentarily startled. “You suspect your own countrymen?”

“Not really. Too obvious, honestly. Making an attack here draws so much attention that any Valian would know that they would be investigated immediately, with little chance to escape unscathed.” Sera shook her head. “But Valians have such an obvious political motive that they can’t be discounted. It’s important to maintain objectivity in these things — and in the aftermath of this, the appearance of objectivity will also be important. We cannot allow this to lead to another war. The cost would be too high.”

“You show great wisdom for your age.” Anthony lowered his head in acknowledgement. “I can see why the archduke chose you.”

Sera stood a little straighter after that remark. “Can you lead us to where the other Valians are located?”

“Yes, of course. I have a list of all the guest accommodations. Please, this way.” Anthony headed toward the main ballroom, then through it into a hallway beyond.

As we followed, I dropped toward the back of the group where Professor Meltlake was walking. She seemed to be scanning the area with a concerned expression, but I couldn’t see what she was looking for. “Insights, professor?”

“I do have some of those, yes.” She both looked and sounded distracted. “Would you care to offer me some?”

“Perhaps later.” She tapped her cane on the ground a little harder than normal. I got the picture, shot her one last concerned look, then headed back toward the front of the group. We arrived outside the Valian guest room a moment later. Two guards had been posted at the door. Anthony leaned in and explained the situation, causing the guards to stand aside.

Sera knocked politely, then opened the door herself and led our group inside.

Six Valians sat around a table, looking mildly disgruntled. They all turned toward us as we entered.

“Figures they’d bring in the trash eventually,” one of them, a brown- haired man in his early twenties, mumbled just loud enough for us to hear.

A man to his right kicked him lightly. “Manners,” he hissed. The second man put on a false smile, then turned back toward us. “We are, of course, pleased to see our countrymen. Even those of inferior rank.”

Meltlake snorted. “Right.”

“Is something funny to you?” The brown-haired man stood up, ignoring a look of protest from the man who had kicked him earlier and a distressed expression from a woman with similar hair to his side. “Please, by all means, share the joke with the rest of us.”

Professor Meltlake moved to the front of our group, her eyes narrowing. “The only thing inferior here is your behavior. You will behave yourself or you will be silent.”

“How dare you! I am Constant Beaufort, next in line to the earldom of—”

Meltlake sighed, her hand moving just slightly, and no further sound escaped from the man’s mouth. He looked briefly startled, then clutched at his throat uncertainly.

Two others at the table stood up immediately, reaching for weapons. I reached for my own.

“Oh, thank the goddess, I thought he’d never shut up.” A blonde-haired woman toward the back of the group let out a laugh with a strangely musical trill at the end. She was the one I’d noted earlier with the harp- shaped necklace. “At ease, everyone. Constant is fine, she’s simply manipulating the air so that his voice won’t escape. He’s not choking, although she could accomplish that easily, couldn’t she?”

Meltlake nodded. “Trivially.”

“Fascinating. I’ve rarely seen such sophisticated control of air magic.

Perhaps you can teach me the trick sometime?” “I’d be pleased to, Lady Nora Haven.”

A wide, menacing grin stretched across Haven’s face. “My, I knew I was advertising my family with the necklace, but you’ve already managed to find my personal name? It’s rare someone manages to have the advantage of my identity before I have their own. You are, of course, a Hartigan — but I cannot say I recall the archduchess having any children of your age. Given your Citrine aura, which is quite impressive for your age, I can only assume that you are a carefully-kept secret.”

The implication behind that assertion was that Meltlake was an illegitimate child — a supposition that practically demanded that Meltlake defend her own honor by identifying herself. Not a bad strategy, but…“Something like that. Anyway, we’re here on business.” Meltlake deflected the remark effortlessly. “There’s been an assassination attempt. We’re all suspects, of course. Lady Cadence, if you would?”

By dropping “Lady Cadence” in there, she’d acknowledged Sera as being a fellow noble, and one that was acknowledged by the Hartigan family — an archduchy on a level comparable to the Havens themselves. Insulting our family further would, then, be potentially insulting the Hartigan family as well: something Meltlake had just demonstrated to be unwise.

“Thank you.” Sera chose not to use a title for Meltlake, which was also deliberate: she didn’t know what Meltlake was calling herself, so she choseto go with nothing. “We’ve all been interrogated already. The house staff is currently prioritizing the safety of the guests and residents, and thus, since we’ve been cleared and possess…certain skills, we’ve been asked to provide assistance with clearing other guests.”

“My, my.” Haven gave Sera an appraising look. “You’ve managed quite an opportunistic move there, haven’t you? I can already see you have quite a future ahead of you. We should speak privately later.”

Sera continued without missing a beat. “My brother possesses a ring that forces whoever wears it to obey his verbal commands. Each of you will put on the ring in turn. He will then demand that you answer our questions honestly. This should be a painless process, provided that everyone cooperates.”

I hadn’t told Sera my plan to use the Ring of Derek Controlling for the interrogation. She’d picked it up purely from context.

I had to admit, I was a little impressed.

Haven clapped her hands. “What fun! Normally I don’t let younger men command me outside of very special contexts,” she shot me a look that sent a shiver down my spine, “but I suppose we’ll make an exception. Please, get Lys first. I’d love to watch.”

A younger woman to her left shot her a glare, then turned toward us and bowed her head. “If it is the mistress’ will, I will, of course, subject myself to this test.”

“Of course you will, dear. Now, hands out. And if Lady Hartigan wouldn’t mind, can you allow my dear Earl-to-Be to have his voice back?”

Meltlake nodded. “If you’ll keep him reigned in.”

“Yes, naturally. Constant apologizes profusely for his earlier rudeness, don’t you, my dear?”

The earl glared at Meltlake for another moment, then turned his head to Lady Haven and nodded once, grudgingly.

“Perfect. Go ahead.”

Meltlake flicked a finger. Nothing visible happened, but Constant had a startled expression, then started to speak again. “I should say that—“”

“Sssh, dear. You’ve said quite enough. Wait for your turn.” Lady Haven turned to me. “What are you waiting for? That young woman is waiting for you to put a ring on her hand.”

I rolled my eyes and moved forward. Lys had her hands extended. I carefully slipped the ring around her left pointer finger to avoid any unnecessary symbolism. “Answer any questions from my group, including me, honestly and to the best of your ability.”

The ring flashed.

“Ooh! Have her obey me, too!” Lady Haven leaned closer to me. “Pretty please? I want to play.”

I shot her a hard look. “You’ll play when we get to your turn.”

She gave me a little pout. “I don’t like bossy men.” She folded her arms. “You’re losing points rapidly.”

I had far more important things to worry about than Lady Haven’s impressions of me…probably. “Let us ask our questions first. You can ask one at the end, and if I like it, maybe we’ll give you more.”

She gave me an appraising look, then nodded. “Better. While I dislike needing to prove my usefulness, I admit that’s a valid strategy.” She waved a hand. “Proceed.”

I resisted the urge to roll my eyes, turning back to Lys. “State your name for us.”

“Caelyssa Ves.”

“And your affiliation?” I asked.

“I am a sworn retainer to House Haven.”

I gave Lady Haven a look. This was how she treated a retainer? She smiled brightly back at me, then made some kind of gesture…buttoning her own lips shut, I think?Oh, maybe they haven’t invented zippers yet. I’m wonder if…wait, getting distracted again.

I turned back to Lys. “Do you know anything about the attacks that just occurred?”

“Yes.”

“You need to be a bit more specific than that, brother. Just knowing attacks happened would be a ‘yes’.” Sera stepped up next to me. “Did you participate in the attacks in any capacity?”

“No.” Lys shook her head.

“Do you know anyone who was involved in the attacks?” “No, I do not.”

“Do you have any idea who the targets were?”

Lys frowned. “I can surmise based on the response that it was the owners of the home, but I can’t say for certain.”

“Did you come here with any intention to do harm to any Edrian citizen?”

Lys blinked. “No. I mean, not unless we were attacked first?”

“Did you develop a reason to attack any Edrian citizen after coming here?”

“N—,” she stopped herself, forcing her mouth shut. Then after shuddering, “I thought about hurting the man who challenged your brother.”

Sera and I both blinked. “Why?” I asked.

“An insult to one of us is an insult to us all.” She glared at Constant, then looked back to me. “You defended our national honor in that duel, but I think you should have crippled him.”

I sighed. “I didn’t think that was necessary. Anyway, did you take any action to harm him after the duel?”

“No, I was forbidden from doing so.” “By your lady?” Sera asked.

She turned her head to Lady Haven, who smiled beatifically, then turned back to us. “Yes, by my lady.”

“Thank you,” I noted to Lady Haven. “You may have helped us avoid an incident.”

“You’re most welcome! Can I ask one now?” I sighed, then turned to Sera.

Sera shrugged. “The basics are out of the way. Sure, let’s see what she’s got.”

“Please honestly answer the next question from Lady Haven related to this specific investigation.”

Lady Haven raised a hand to her heart as if wounded. “My dear Lord Cadence, did you think I was going to use this rare opportunity to ask my retainer something completely unrelated while she was forced to give an honest answer?”

I tilted my head downward. “Yes, definitely.”

“Right you are! Wonderful. You’re a much better sparring partner than I initially expected. Very well, I’ll stay on topic for now. Lys, answer me this— presuming that none of the Valians in this room is involved, who do you believe would be the most likely person to have the necessary means,positioning, and motivation to make an attempt on the lives of the young daughters of this house?”

Something dangerous passed over Anthony’s face. I presumed it was because Haven had spoken of “daughters”, rather than a single daughter, indicating she already had known that there were a cursed pair involved. No official announcement had yet been made, and thus, that implied Lady Haven had either come to the party with prior knowledge or had somehow deduced that information during the party.

“Well, I suppose, if they have to meet all the criteria…the bearer of Soulbrand, perhaps? He is said to be a powerful fighter, and given that he is from House Dalen, he would have sufficient motive to want retribution for what happened to Kelridge.”

“East Edria,” Anthony said a little louder than necessary.

“Yes, of course.” Lady Haven laughed. “Clearly, that’s what Lys meant.

Forgive us.”

Anthony glared at her, but said nothing further. “Am…I done now?” Lys asked in a half-begging tone.

“I think we can move on.” I reached forward. Lys hastily stuck her hand out, allowing me to take the ring off her hand.

“Excellent!” Lady Haven clapped her hands. “Who’s next?”

***We went through questioning the rest of the Valians quickly and easily without anyone giving any hint of involvement with the assassination attempts. Lady Haven continued to attempt to be “helpful”, asking questions related to try to find any loopholes in our questions. Things like, “Did you participate in anything that may have been interpreted as an attack, but was actually a form of misdirection toward your real objective?” or that sort of thing.

I wasn’t surprised when she, after being questioned herself, offered to “help” us interrogate the other guests at the party. I flatly turned her down. Her questions were potentially insightful, but she was clearly enjoying herself so much that I could see that there was a high probability she’d find some way to subvert our efforts.

With that room concluded, we moved on to the next — the gathering from Caelford. They proved much more straightforward to deal with,answering our questions simply and directly without complaint. No one revealed any involvement in the attack.

“We’re getting nowhere,” Patrick frowned.

“This isn’t going to be a quick process. We have a lot of people to go through. We may need to take multiple passes, too, as we come up with better questions to refine our search.”

“I’m not sure the ring is going to be able to handle multiple passes. It has a lot of mana, but…” I frowned. “We may need to find someone who can recharge it more effectively than I can if we don’t find the culprit on the first pass.”

“We’ll deal with that issue when the time comes.” Sera tapped her foot, seemingly contemplating something. “For now, I think it’s long past time we have a talk with Master Dalen.”

My heart sank. I wasn’t sure I could deal with a second Dalen-related betrayal.

Patrick spoke before I could. “Mitsurugi is here alone, and I was with him outside right around when the attacks happened. It can’t be him.”

“If I was involved, I wouldn’t make it obvious who else I was working with. Staying outside with you while his allies make the attack is an excellent form of deflection.” Sera put a hand on his shoulder. “Sorry, Patrick. We have to do this.”

“…It’s okay. Fine. Let’s just make it quick. And try not to question his honor too much.”

***Two minutes later…“You are questioning my honor?” Mitsurugi glared at me. “I thought better of you, Cadence. I have done nothing to warrant this insult.”

I may have phrased my opening poorly. I raised my hands in placating fashion. “No, no. We’re simply asking everyone. We’ve already gone through multiple rooms of other people.”

Mitsurugi’s eyes remained narrowed, but his stance shifted to something more neutral. “Very well, I understand. I am still disappointed that you chose this approach, rather than simply asking me, but I will subject myself to this treatment as a sign of respect for my fellow wielder.”

He extended his hands toward me. Nervously, I slipped a ring on his right ring finger.

Wait, that finger was…I winced at my own accidental implication, but said nothing. If Mitsurugi had noticed my slip, he said nothing.

“Ask your questions.” “I, uh…”

“Tell him to answer honestly first, Corin,” Sera reminded me.

“Uh, right. Mitsurugi, answer all questions from my group and me honestly.”

There was a flash as the ring activated, then Mitsurugi grunted. “I will.

Ask.”

Patrick surprised me by speaking first. “Were you involved in any attempt to assassinate a member of House Verena?”

He turned to Patrick with a look of…acknowledgement, maybe? “No. I intended nothing of the sort.”

Patrick continued. “Did you come here with the intent to harm any member of House Verena, or their retainers, in any way?”

“No.”

“Have you attacked anyone at this party?” “Not aside from sparring.”

“Did anyone who accompanied you here attack anyone at this party?’ “Not that I am aware of.”

I noted that was phrased differently, but I let Patrick keep going. He was clearly up to something with his own line of questioning.

“Do you have any indication of who might be responsible for the attack?”

“Yes.”

I blinked. “Really?”

He rolled his eyes. “Yes.”

Realizing that my question was a little vague, I rephrased. “Please, elaborate.”

“This place is a cesspit of immorality. Several people have motivations to attack the residents of this home.”

Anthony bristled. “You would be wise to watch your words.”

“I cannot.” He raised his hand and flashed the ring. “I can only be honest.”

The butler gave Mitsurugi a glare, but Patrick asked another question before things could escalate.

“Who do you believe would be most likely responsible for the attacks?” “Other Edrians seeking power,” Mitsurugi explained. “This archduchy will die an ignoble death for their audacity if they do not take immediate measures to secure their place. Vultures circle, but one pack of wolves hasalready chosen to strike.”

“…But you are not sure who the wolves are in this analogy?” I asked. “Correct.” Mitsurugi nodded. “But I can tell you that it’s very likely tobe one of the other archduchies or duchies at work. They have the most to gain.”

“One last thing,” Patrick spoke again. “Were you serious about your earlier offer?”

“Of course.” He nodded his head.

“I think we’re done here.” Patrick turned to me, a pleading look on his face.

“I think we are as well.” Sera clapped her hands. “Master Dalen, please forgive us for this intrusion. We appreciate your cooperation.”

“You are not forgiven.” He tore the ring off his finger and tossed it toward me. I caught it and, unsettled, left the room.

***Anthony shot a frustrated look back at the room as we left, but said nothing.

I glanced at Patrick. He whispered “later”.

“Well, if it’s not Dalen, and Dalen thinks it’s someone from Edria…”

“I would advise you not to take the words of a dissident too seriously,” Anthony noted. “He is unfairly biased toward his betters.”

Patrick’s face flickered to a brief and uncharacteristic expression of anger. “He has no betters here.”

Anthony looked like he was about to argue, but Sera quickly stepped between them. “Gentlemen, we have limited time. We should be focusing on our investigation.”

“Yes, of course,” Anthony bowed his head in acknowledgement. He reached into his pocket, checking a pocket watch, then frowned. “We may truly have limited time. The archduke intends to bring his daughters out in less than a bell to perform the debut.”

“Wait, what? Even if we haven’t identified the culprit?” I asked.

“A brief delay may be tolerable, but too much would imply a sign of weakness. And given the level of stature of some of those present, some will not be patient. I could, perhaps, convince him to give us another half bell, but…”

“Get us to the next room, then go do that,” Sera instructed him. “We need as much time as possible.”

“Very well. Who is next?”

“Let’s speak to the man who challenged my brother. He was clearly willing to attack someone during the party.”

I raised an eyebrow at Sera, questioning her strategy. Jerome was violent, sure, but he had a particular motive to go after someone from House Cadence. He also appeared to be a staunch Edrian patriot. Attacking an archduke’s family sounded out-of-character for him, although perhaps not for his compatriots.

…Still, given her expression, I was confident she was up to something. “An excellent idea. This way.”

Anthony led us to another room, spoke to the guards, then bowed. “I will speak to the archduke and see if I can garner a small delay. I shall be back forthwith.”

As Anthony departed, Sera leaned to Meltlake and whispered something. Meltlake nodded, then headed off down a different hallway.

“Shall we go talk to our old friends?” Sera asked. I rolled my eyes and followed her into the room.

***The guards accompanied us into the room this time, explaining in Anthony’s absence that we had the authority to perform the interrogation. In spite of some initial animosity for obvious reasons, Jerome and his compatriots cooperated, revealing no involvement in the assassination attempt and no knowledge of who had caused it.

When asked who the most likely suspects were, Jerome said, “You, obviously.” Helpful, that one.

Duchess Sheng and Duke Jing were in the same room and had similarly safe answers. They represented the majority of the remaining Edrian political power at the party, with one clear exception.

When we left the room, Anthony had already returned, and he was waiting right outside. “I’ve managed to secure the delay as you requested. Where to next?”

He didn’t ask about the results of the interrogation.

“We’ll be going to see Archduke Wolff next,” Sera explained.

I watched Anthony stiffen just slightly at that. “The archduke will not be pleased to be interrogated in this manner. I advise you that this course of action may be unwise.”

“I’ll take responsibility for any shaken scales.” Sera smiled. “Please, lead the way.”

Archduke Wolff sat in a huge, well-appointed room, surrounded by over a dozen retainers. A quick flash of Detect Aura showed me that not only was Archduke Wolff a Citrine, he had multiple Sunstones among his retinue.

We have zero chance if this goes badly. Not without Meltlake.

I frowned at her absence, but forced myself to focus.

“Please, forgive us for this intrusion, Archduke Wolff.” Anthony bowed. “I believe you’ve already been appraised of the situation?”

“Yes, yes. This is more than a bit ridiculous, but let’s get it over with.

You may question my retainers.” “…And you?” I asked.

“You’ve got some stones if you want to question me, boy.” He scowled. “But yes, of course, I will happily cooperate for the sake of my dear fellow archduke.”

I cycled through his retainers quickly, asking only the most basic of questions. As I expected, none of them gave any hint of involvement.

Then we reached the archduke. I questioned him a bit harder, but he answered the questions easily and without any sign of guilt.

Could he be resistant to the ring? As a Citrine who was aware of the function in advance, maybe he could have prepared a defense.

Before I could inquire on that subject, however, Sera chose to make her own play.

“Archduke Wolff,” Sera smiled sweetly, “Where is your daughter?” “Maria?” He blinked, seemingly startled. “I have no idea.”

I turned toward Anthony to ask him which room Maria had been assigned to, but when I spun to ask I found something utterly predictable—He was already gone.

I smiled brightly at the archduke. “Thank you for your cooperation, Archduke Wolff. That concludes our questioning.”

I bowed, retrieved my ring from him, and left him perplexed as I retreated from the room.

…Then, once outside, Patrick, Sera, and I broke into a run.

***We rushed toward the building entrance. Sera shouted, “Clearance Four,” to the guards as we approached and they stepped out of the way. I had no idea what that meant, but I didn’t have time to ask.

When we got outside, Sera whispered a few words into the air, then spun and headed around the side of the building. Patrick and I followed her at first, then I rushed ahead the moment I saw the flash of distant lightning flicker from the sky.

By the time I’d reached the site of the battle, it was over.

Vanniv was pinning Anthony to the ground with his full weight, laughing uproariously.

And Maria Wolff was floating in mid-air, held in place by both a cage of wind and chains seemingly formed from solid lightning. Meltlake hovered nearby, her cane outstretched in Wolff’s direction. Meltlake turned as we approached, gave Sera a wordless nod, then turned back to face Wolff and continue to hold her in place.

I halted not far from Meltlake, processing the scene, then waited for Sera and Patrick to catch up.

“You can drop her, professor. We’ll take it from here,” Sera began. Meltlake shook her head. “No, I think she’ll escape too easily. Patrick,get the archduke.”

“Yes, Professor.” Patrick spun and rushed off without delay.

I turned to Sera as Patrick moved back toward the house. “You knew they’d try to escape.”

“Obviously. As soon as we got downstairs, I sent Vanniv outside to watch the area from the skies. When I realized who was likely involved, I asked Meltlake to go outside to help.”

“I could have handled this one,” Vanniv laughed, “But that archduke’s daughter was quite impressive. I appreciate the assistance.”

“You are quite welcome,” Meltlake smiled. “Excellent deductive work, Sera.”

“We are not done here,” Anthony hissed. “We will have our—”

Vanniv flicked him, sending an electrical jolt through Anthony’s body. The butler twitched, spasmed, then went silent. Not dead, mind you, he just quieted down.

“Was…that necessary?” I asked.

“Probably not, but I don’t like it when people sound overconfident.”

I stared at Vanniv. If he caught me judging his blatant hypocrisy, he gave no sign. He just turned to Sera, tilting his head to the side. “So, after this, can we get something to eat? All this justice is making me hungry.”

***Patrick returned a few minutes later with the archduke and a small entourage. Mara remained missing, presumably continuing to protect the archduke’s daughters.

“Anthony.” The archduke stomped closer, the stone below him cracking with each step. “Is it true?”

“Hmpf. If you mean to ask me if I assisted Miss Wolff, yes, absolutely. I have no regrets. Your tolerance of those abominations has always disgusted—”

A flash of movement, almost too fast for me to follow. Then Vanniv scrambled backward from the body he’d been pinning down in shock and disgust.

Maria Wolff screamed.

The archduke waved his bloodstained saber in the air, dispersing only a fraction of Anthony’s blood that now marred the blade. Then he strode over to Maria, while she still floated, incapacitated.

“Cadence. The ring,” the archduke instructed.

“You can’t do this.” Maria insisted. “I am an archduke’s daughter.”

“So are Emery and Emma.” He reached up, his shroud flashing as his arm passed straight through the cage of wind around her. His hand wrapped around her neck and he yanked downward, tearing Maria straight through the cage and slamming her into the ground. “The ring, Cadence.”

I carefully tossed him the ring. I wasn’t getting in sword reach of an angry man who could move that fast. Maybe with Haste I could have kept up, but I couldn’t guarantee it.

He forced the ring onto Maria’s hand as she screamed again, tears flowing through her eyes. “Cadence, begin.”

“You will answer all questions from the archduke and my group honestly. You will not attempt to escape. You will not attempt to contact any of your allies.”

“My only ally is dead,” Maria spat. “You just killed him.”

“A good start,” the archduke responded, his jaw tightening. “Why? Was it about power? Did you think that killing my daughters would allow your house to take our place when I pass?”

“Hardly,” Maria glowered a him. “We were simply doing what you were too weak to manage. The goddess has no room in her world for freaks. You dishonored our glorious nation by allowing them to live, and by acknowledging them, you would have shamed Edria in the presence of the entire world.”

The archduke tore the ring back off her hand, tossed it to me, and then grabbed Maria by the hair. She screamed again.

“No, no!” She screamed and screamed as the archduke dragged her back toward the house. “Please! The goddess will punish us all if we fail here!”

Patrick looked a bit distraught, but Sera simply put a hand on his shoulder.

Sera’s single word reply was a whisper, but loud enough to bring silence to Maria’s screams. “No.”

***After the archduke dragged Maria into the doors of his manor, we swiftly went to meet with Mara and the archduke’s daughters.

It was close to an hour before the archduke returned, opening his arms wide. His daughters rushed forward and hugged him tightly. He closed his eyes for a moment.

We gave them all some silence and room.

When their embrace was over, the archduke turned to us. “The ceremony will proceed as planned. You have done me a tremendous service by helping to protect my daughters.”

Emma leaned upward and whispered something to her father.

“An excellent idea.” The archduke nodded. “Sera Cadence. Marissa Callahan. My daughters would be honored if you would accompany themthis evening for their debut.”

Sera and Mara exchanged glances. Mara blushed bright crimson. Sera grinned brightly. “We would be delighted.”

***It took some time to gather the remainder of the party goers back into ballroom. There, the archduke himself made apologies for the interruption, thanked everyone for coming, and asked for the party goers to be seated.

Patrick, Vanniv, and I were seated at the head table in positions of honor, not far from the archduke himself. So, we were in a great position to watch when the double doors to the ballroom opened.

Professor Meltlake stepped through, clapping her hands with a sound of thunder that silenced the entire room. In the aftermath of the shock, she spoke. “I now have the great honor to introduce the young ladies of House Verena — Emery and Emma Verena — and their escorts for the evening, Sera Cadence and Marissa Callahan.”

All eyes turned toward the doors as the four young ladies entered the room. Sera and Emma came through first, holding hands and laughing as they waved to the now-cheering crowd.

Emery and Mara came next, arm-in-arm. Emery leaned heavily on Mara’s arm, and Mara walked slowly forward, carefully helping to bear the frail woman’s weight.

While Emma’s eyes eagerly took in the crowd that stood to greet her, Emery only had eyes for the Guardian on her arm.

The ladies made their way to the table, and then with another clap of thunder, Meltlake spoke. “Let the festivities begin!”

***The rest of the evening passed in a blur. I wasn’t much for balls or social events, but nevertheless I found myself relaxing as the night progressed. With no obvious further threats, I found myself enjoying just listening to Vanniv joking with the archduke and the musicians playing in a distant corner of the room.

“I can’t believe it was the butler,” Sera whispered to me later in the evening. “Who would have suspected the butler, of all people?”

I laughed. “I suspected him, but…good work.”

She grinned. “You, too. This would have been infinitely harder without the ring.”

“Thanks. Think we need to do anything else?”

Sera shook her head. “Talked to Meltlake. Thinks we’ll be done as soon as the party ends. Might as well enjoy ourselves.”

“Sounds good. Any suggestions?”

She laughed. “Well, the ladies are accounted for the evening, but I’ve noticed a certain Dalen that won’t stop looking at you.”

“Sera…”

“What?” She grinned. “He looks just like a certain someone, and he seems like the type of guy that might own a unicorn.”

I glanced at Dalen Mitsurugi, caught the danger in his eyes for an intense moment, then glanced back to Sera.

“Hard pass.”

