PREVIEW CHAPTER – CAREFULLY WORDED WISHES

Stealing from the grave of a god isn’t something I’d recommend to others. It was pretty fun, though, and more or less a victimless crime.

The Authority had been born and died many times, and I couldn’t see any given one of them being that important to him. He couldn’t possibly need all of the sacred treasures contained within them, could he? Maybe a handful of graves worth, at most.



The rest of us, being poorer in sacred treasures, needed them far more. This was doubly true for Rai and myself, who up to that point, had no treasures at all.

Or none of the conventional variety, at least. A loving family is a treasure worth more than any sacred treasure. I understood that even then, as I risked my life alongside the one who meant the most to me.

Together, we stood at the base of the mountainside below the tomb.

We shared identical glances and nods, then turned our hands toward the rock.

I closed my eyes, assisting me in envisioning my spirit. Using such a vulgar strategy for focusing would have been fatal in battle, but I was just a kid.

My spiritual energy flowed smoothly within my body. I didn’t have a dedication yet, and thus, the structure of my soul was a smoothly flowing river. Not a wide or fast-flowing river, not yet. But enough to assist in a simple task such as this one.

I focused on that flow, concentrated, and shifted it to collect into upper arms and hands. Immediately, I felt my strength improve in those locations.

And with that, I began to climb. Rai followed just behind me, as usual. Up. Up.

I shifted my spirit as I moved, manipulating it to my legs when I needed a foothold rather than a handhold. The mountainside was steep, but with my spirit reinforcing my body, I wasn’t scared. Even if I fell, I trusted I could spread my spirit enough to absorb much of the impact.

I wasn’t afraid of much back then in general. Such is the strength and the flaw of an unburdened youth.

Reaching the top took nearly an hour. I remember the sweat dripping from my forehead into my eyes, and that my efforts to reach up and wipe it away only made the burning that much worse.

My muscles burned, too, but not nearly so much as they might have unassisted. My spirit was strong for my age and carried much of my weight.

Rai moved behind me on the mountainside, slowly but with great certainty, as she always did.

I pulled myself over the top of the mountain and looked down at her.

I didn’t have to worry. My twin would catch up to me. She always did.

I didn’t reach down to offer her a hand as she approached my height. I wouldn’t dishonor her with the presumption that she needed help with such a trivial task.

Perhaps I should have. For all our shared traits, I often failed to understand her. I didn’t understand the foreign expression of hurt in her eyes when she approached and pulled herself, alone, atop the mountain.

Instead, I simply grinned. “Ready to get in trouble?” She offered me a nod. “I will do this for you, sister.”

“Not for me,” I corrected. “Never for me. This is for our parents, remember?”

Rai’s expression showed only the slightest hint of a frown. “Of course.” “C’mon!” I waved eagerly and turned to rush toward the building.

The Seventy-Seventh Authority’s Grave was marked by a single stone door set into the top of the ground. More a hatch than a door, really. Like a wine cellar, but for god corpses.

Maybe just one god corpse? I wasn’t sure.

The door was covered in sacred glyphs. Some were mere text: Your usual “Keep out, dead god in here, heavily riddled with deadly traps, thanks.”

The rest were glowing glyphs invested with spiritual power. The type that would ordinarily keep unscrupulous children from robbing and otherwise mildly desecrating such an important place.

I could not have hoped to break down such a door with my own meager spiritual power. It was likely wrought of the power of Masters or beyond. My strength was a raindrop; the runes were an ocean.

But enough rain can wear down even the mightiest mountain in time. I mean that in the most literal possible sense.

The door was perfectly intact. Years of rainfall and a recent flood, however, had eroded some of the nearby rock. Perhaps some of the increasingly-frequent earthquakes had contributed, too.

And so, while the door stood unmarred by the rigors of age, the large crack in the ground nearby provided an entrance.

It was a thin one. Too thick, perhaps, for most adults to slip through. A child, especially one on the thin and admittedly scrawny side like Rai or myself, had a much better chance.

I had improved this chance by widening the hole gradually over the course of the last three months. I was not foolish enough to try to squeeze into such a place and get stuck, especially considering the types of traps and sacred beasts that were likely to take advantage if I was in such a vulnerable state.

Each time I worked, I covered my progress by moving nearby brush to cover the hole. Few traveled to this obscure location. There were many other graves of the Authority that were closer to major cities or otherwise more easily accessible for pilgrimages. My heart had nearly leapt out of my chest the one time I had seen another person — a wandering monk making a tour of all of the graves — but he simply bowed his head, gave me a gap- toothed grin, and left a bowl of softly glowing rice as an offering at the entrance of the tomb.

The rice was delicious. Enough that I brought half home to share with Rai. She didn’t ask where they came from. Even then, she knew better.

Don’t look at me like that. Why would anyone let good rice go to waste? If the Authority was dead, he wouldn’t care. If he was currently alive, I judged that he was very unlikely to come by just in time to eat some rice left on the top of one of his graves.

Really, I was doing everyone a favor by eating it.

Anyway, the delicious glowy rice was likely a source of some of my early spiritual power, but I had little idea of that at the time. I did, however, know that I needed more power. Far more.

I’ll get to why later.

My hands moved swiftly at the fissure near the tomb, displacing the branches and rocks I’d used to conceal the entrance.

I turned toward Rai. She was already handing me the lantern, affixed to a rope.

Yes, we had rope, and we didn’t use it to help climb. Stop judging me like that. We didn’t need it.

I tied the rope around the metal ring at the top of the lantern and lowered it into the hole.

Inside, I could see a structure very different from the outside. It was perfectly cut grey-white stone. I don’t know what type, sorry. The rocky kind? Never been an expert at that sort of thing.

I’m not a murderer of rocks like you are.

I swung the lantern from side-to-side just a bit, hoping to find any obvious traps. I didn’t see any.

Then I let the lantern touch the floor. I heard an immediate “click”.

Spears shot out of holes in the nearby walls. Fortunately, Rai and I were still up top, and the lantern itself was so low to the ground that it didn’t get hit.

The rope was nicked by one of the spears, but not destroyed. “Ooh!” I grinned. “Spears! Nice. I bet we could use some of those.” Rai sighed.

The spears withdrew back into the walls they’d come from. Now that I’d seen them come out, I could see the small holes in the wall they’d emerged from.

As I lowered myself into the pit, I realized that the holes had been covered with something — a thin layer of stone-colored paper.

“Wow. Rude.” I didn’t let myself touch the floor immediately. Instead, I pulled myself back up and reached up with a single hand.

Rai wordlessly placed a rock in my hand.

I dropped the rock, swinging my legs upward as the spear trap triggered again.

Six spears shot out of the holes, then began to slowly withdraw back into the wall.

I let go of the rope before the spears had fully withdrawn, grabbing the end of the closest one. Then, as I landed, I shifted my spirit into my arms and yanked downward hard.

As I’d hoped, the force of my fall and the pull snapped the spear’s shaft.

I tossed that up to Rai, who caught it, then began to snap the next one.

The trap triggered again, faster than I’d expected.

I barely managed to throw myself to the side quickly enough to avoid the four remaining spears.

I let out a giggle.

“Are you unhurt, sister?” Rai asked.

“Fine, fine. Don’t worry.” I snapped another spear, then the next.

By the time the trap triggered again, there was only one spear left, and I was able to snap it easily.

“Tossing most of these up.” I tossed her three more broken spears. Rai stacked them at the top of the cavern. If we found nothing else, we’d at least have a few spears to sell.

Unfortunately, they seemed purely ordinary, so I didn’t think they’d be worth much. I’d have to go deeper and hope there would be a worthy reward.

Rai descended shortly after. We each picked up one of the two remaining spears. Rai held the lantern in her off-hand, which would make using a spear more difficult in a fight, but that wasn’t what either of us planned to use them for. In such close quarters, we couldn’t maneuver a spear much, anyway.

Instead, we began to use the spears to prod the floor ahead of us. If there had been one pressure plate trap already, we could expect to see more.

The first place we checked was toward the entrance door. Our plan was to try to open the entrance doorway from the inside, allowing us to escape more rapidly if necessary.

We also left the rope in place. That would be our escape route if the doors proved stubborn.

We triggered one more trap as we prodded the floors in the entrance hall; a hail of arrows. Leading the way, I deftly deflected the majority of the arrows with my spear. Rai simply side-stepped the few that slipped past me.

At that point, we’d reached the entrance. We stood just below the door.

There were two unlit braziers on the walls nearby. We lit them. Nothing in particular happened, but it did allow us to more clearly see an inscription on the stone nearby.

The Seventy-Seventh Incarnation of the Authority Lies Here Woe be to Those who Would Desecrate this Sacred Place For They Will be Forever CursedBlah Blah Blah, Etc. Etc.

It was all boring stuff like that, so I stopped reading and shoved my spear at the bottom side door.

Sparks flew from where the metal tip of the spear contacted the door, then the spear lit on fire.

“Aww.” I tossed the spear aside. “I liked that spear.”

I probably should have climbed back up and gotten another one, but I was feeling impatient, and also lazy.

Rai passed me her spear. “We should not disrupt the door further, sister.”

“I concur.” I slapped her on the shoulder. “Ready for the really dangerous stuff?”

She lowered her head slightly. “If we must.”

“We must! Onward!” Now that we’d reached the entrance, we only had one way to go; back the way we’d come from and down the hallway beyond.

We headed forward. I began to tapping the floor to a jaunty, musical rhythm.

“Trap, trap, trap. Trap, trap, trap. Need to find a trap, need to find a trap.

Trap, trap, trap. Trap, trap, trap. Gonna hit a trap, gonna hit a trap.”

I heard a sigh behind me. Clearly, Rai did not share my expert talent and taste for music. Such was but one of her many regrettable flaws, but I loved her regardless.

Admittedly, the song had flaws. I’d gotten so into it after a few minutes that I didn’t immediately notice when I actually hit a trap.

In fairness to me, the smoke was almost invisible.

Rai grabbed my shoulder and pulled me back as gas began to spread down the hall.

“Huh?” I startled. “Down!”

She tackled me to the floor.

Her talents for music weren’t great, but she had a strong instinct for some things. In this case, she had quickly discerned that the smoke began to spray from two holes in the walls was drifting up, rather than down. Wedidn’t understand the reason for that at the time, but as I observed what she’d intuited, I remained on the ground.

We lay there for a while, breathing cautiously, as the smoke drifted upward.

Time passed. I fidgeted. “Wait a bit,” Rai pleased. Time passed. I jittered. “Wait,” Rai insisted.

Time passed. I shifted and began to push myself up. “Give it a bit more. Please, sister,” she begged.

I sighed. “Fine.”

We waited until the air seemed clear, and then beyond that.

“I do not believe the floor was the trigger for the gas trap,” Rai explained as we pushed ourselves to our feet.

I blinked. “What, then?”

“There.” She pointed into the distance. “Use your eyes.”

I frowned, narrowing my eyes. I could see something glowing faintly, but...

I focused my spirit into my eyes.

Such a basic reinforcement technique was not very potent, but it was enough. My vision cleared, and the darkness within the tomb seemed just slightly less oppressive.

Just about a dozen feet ahead, I could see something glimmering on the wall. A glyph, shaped like an eye.

“Oooh, you sneaky sneak!” I pulled my arm back and aimed the spear. “Wait!”

I didn’t wait. I threw the spear. I missed.

The spear clanked harmlessly to the stone.

Rai sighed. “I was going to suggest that we could, perhaps, simply use a stone, sister. In such a way, we could have held onto the spear in case there were more floor traps between here and there.”

“Uh...oops?” I scratched the back of my head sheepishly. “So, rocks...”

She reached into a pouch at her hip, retrieving a rock. She her time aiming, then hurled the stone.

She hit the glyph dead-on. It sparked on contact, flickered, and died.

“Nice!” I smiled and nudged her. “You’ve got a good arm there.” “Same as yours, sister. I simply chose something better to throw.” I snorted. “Fine, fine. C’mon. We’ll take it slow.”

“Could we not return from whence we came and get another spear first?”

I frowned. “I don’t want to.”

“An injury would cost us more time than going back a short way.” I sighed. “Fine, fine.”

We went back. I climbed up, grabbed two more spears, and tossed them down.

Then we headed back to where we were and cautiously prodded the floor as we moved on.

We reached the area where I’d thrown my spear without incident. “See? Didn’t need to waste the time on these.” I shook my head.

“We did not know that beforehand. The caution was warranted. And now we have two spears to carry again, rather than one.”

“Fair. Alright, let’s move on.”

Rai frowned. “Should we not, perhaps, use this as a chance to return home and tell Mother about our progress? I believe she would—”

I put a hand on her lips. “No. She wouldn’t.” Rai frowned. Then nodded.

I pulled my finger back. “This is our only chance. One chance. Let’s not waste it.”

“For you, sister.” Rai shook her head. “For you.” We walked on.

The next trap didn’t require prodding. It was, in fact, entirely visible. There was a section of the floor that was entirely missing.

Unlike the fissure that had led us into this place, his hole was natural.

The gap was only a few feet across, easy enough to jump.

When we looked down, we could see some sort of bubbling and churning pit of liquid below.

“Soup!” I pointed. “That is acid, sister.” “It looks delicious!” Rai stared at me.

I poked the opposite side of the pit.

Rin and I side-stepped the weighed net trap that fired from a distant wall, which had presumably been designed to knock whoever just jumped straight across into the pit.

“Ooh!” I headed to where the net had fallen and picked it up. Then, after that, I prodded the opposite side of the pit again. Another net shot out. We dodged it.

“Ooh!” I repeated. I now had two nets.

I repeated this process fifteen times, until I had a pile of nets — I couldn’t carry that many — and I had appearently exhausted the trap’s supply.

“Remind me to empty out the arrow trap later, too,” I told Rin. “We have no place to put so many arrows.”

“We have nets!”

“The logistics of that seem...never mind, sister. Let us move on.” I nodded agreeably.

Rai insisted on setting one of the net traps across the pit and weighing it down with rocks before we moved on. I didn’t know if it would actually hold our weight, but I agreed because it was a reasonable precaution.

We jumped across the pit and weighed it down some more on the other side.

We actually managed to avoid the next trap entirely with our constant poking and prodding. Two jets of flame shot out from sides of the hallway, enveloping the spot above the trap we’d triggered, but we were completely out of range.

My poor spear, however, was dust.

I headed back and grabbed the one I’d thrown earlier. We marked the spot where we’d triggered the flame jets with a line of chalk before moving on, since unlike the other traps, we didn’t have a good way of disabling this one permanently.

We took a little bit of time testing the bounds of the trap to be safe, triggering it a few times and pulling our spears back to avoid them from getting charred.

Then we prodded the floor just in front of the trap to make sure that part was safe. Back-to-back traps were always possible.

We didn’t find another trap. With that, we jumped over the one we’d marked, chalked the other side of it just to be safe, and then moved on.

“Perhaps we could go back and get a plank of wood to put over this?Secure it to the walls, and then step on that if need be?” Rai suggested.

I shrugged. “You’re worrying too much. We’ll just jump over it on the way out.”

“As you say.” But she sounded uncertain. I moved on.

Tap tap. Prod prod.

I didn’t find any more traps before the end of the hall, where we found a colossal door, similar to the one at the entrance.

The door wasn’t alone. It was guarded by a single stone statue, one that looked something like a cross between a lion and a dog.

“Nice statue,” I remarked, stepping closer.

“That will come to life and eat us if we try to proceed further, sister.” “Yeah, obviously.” I pet the top of the stone statue’s head. “You’re agood man-eating guardian dog, aren’t you boy? Yes you are!” Rai stared at me.

“Okay, boy. Here’s what you need to do.” Rai’s eyes narrowed. “Rin, don’t.”

I smiled at her. “You can back down the hall. I’ll be quick.”

“Rin. That thing is probably designed to fight people of Adept-level.

You have no chance.”

I snorted. “Obviously.”

Rai narrowed her eyes, nodded, then raised her spear. “I will fight with you, then.”

“Fight? Oh, no, no.” I shook my head. “We’re not going to fight this thing.”

I waved toward the hall.

Rai withdrew cautiously, heading back to the fire trap. I wrapped my weighted net around the dog.

Then I went back down the hall, retrieved ten more nets, and draped those over it as well.

Finally, I jammed my spear into the wall.

Sparks flew, and once again, my spear was on fire.

The stone dog’s eyes shifted from stone to gold, and it began to move. “Okay, boy.” I smiled. “Now fetch!”

I hurled my blazing spear down the hall.

The dog ignored the spear entirely, completely ruining my joke. Instead, it turned toward me and howled.

I bolted.

I’d already pushed my spirit into my legs. “Rin!” Rai yelled.

“Get ready!”

I rushed toward her.

The stone dog chased me rapidly. Fortunately, it was still sluggish from presumably centuries of slumber, and it was still entangled in a total of eleven weighted nets.

It also wasn’t a “true” guardian hound — just a statue that resembled one. If it had been, I’d have been eaten alive in moments.

And my destination wasn’t far. I jumped over the chalk line.

The dog didn’t.

Flames blasted out of the walls, enveloping the stone dog. And, in spite of its great spiritual power, the dog began to melt.

Began, but didn’t finish. It was through the trap in a moment. Rai smashed her spear into its face.

The spear broke without effect. We ran on.

We weren’t quite fast enough.

I heard Rai yelp behind me. I spun.

The dog had taken a bite out of her right side. Blood flowed freely from the wound.

“Get off her!”

A surge of spirit flowed into my arm, and I threw a punch.

I very nearly broke my fist. I was not strong enough then to break ordinary stone with a punch, and this guardian was hardly ordinary.

I did, however, get its attention.

The creature released my sister, turning its gold-eyed gaze toward me. And it leaped.

Rai was there in a moment, shoving into it. Where my punch failed, the force of her movement was enough to shift it, just slightly. It crashed heavily into the wall.

We ran on.

The guardian dog followed.

We saw something familiar on the ground and leapt. The guardian dog did not.

And while the net we’d left on the floor might have been enough to hold our weight, it was certainly not enough to hold the weight of a stone statue.

We had, in the end, accidentally laid a trap of our own.

As the net tore beneath it, the guardian dog fell howling into the bubbling liquid below.

“Huh,” I said, as statue splashed into the liquid below and began to dissolve. “You were right. Definitely not soup.”

Rai gave me a soft smile, then collapsed, still bleeding badly, to the ground.

***We were no fools. We’d brought bandages.

Okay, maybe we were fools. But we were mildly prepared fools, at least.

I dressed and wrapped Rai’s wound. The statue’s teeth had torn a great gouge in her skin and muscle, but they hadn’t hit anything vital.

Then, I gently shook her awake.

“Hm?” She blinked. Her hand drifted down. “Oh.” “Rai. Are you okay? You still with me?”

She nodded. “I am well, sister. Thank you.”

“Don’t thank me.” My hand tightened into a fist. “I’m sorry. This was a terrible idea. I’m so sorry.”

I didn’t tell her that I’d been crying, but it was obvious enough from the stains across my face. I didn’t know if she could see them in the dark, though.

Rai shook her head. “Do not worry, sister. I am well. Help me stand?” I nodded and gave her my hand, then helped her to her feet.

“The guardian?” She asked.

“Dissolved.” I pointed at the hole. “We have nothing to fear from it. Do you think you can walk? I can carry you.”

“No.”

“Okay, I can lift you—”

Rai shook her head. “No, I mean we should not leave so soon. I have studied places like this. That guardian may have marked the end of thedangers to this place.”

I frowned. “You...certain?” It was uncharacteristic for Rai to be the one pushing for danger. I wondered if the loss of blood might have impacted her judgment.

Rai touched her wound again, winced, then nodded to me. “It is a superficial injury. I will be fine. We should complete our task.”

I drew in a deep breath, inspecting my sister. “I don’t think...” “Remember your goal.”

My jaw tightened. “Okay.” I paused. “But you wait here and rest. Drink water. I’ll be back.”

Rai frowned, then she nodded and sat back down. “That is an acceptable compromise.”

“Good.” I kissed her on the top of the head. “Be back soon.” “Authority be with you.”

“In a place like this?” I laughed. “Probably better off if he doesn’t catch us.”

I headed back to the door, planning along the way.

Can I get some of that acid to burn through the area around the door somehow? Maybe take it off the hinges?It didn’t matter.

The door was wide open.

And beyond it was...virtually nothing.

There were no grand piles of treasure like I pictured, no stacks of preserved elixirs and glittering magical spears.

There was simply a large stone container in the center of the room. A coffin. In a tomb! Who knew?The coffin was the fancy kind. The top of it had been carved into a likeness of the Authority in that particular incarnation, which turned out to be a man of indeterminate age that was, let’s say, a little on the heavy side.

Not what I’d been picturing, but hey, I guess reincarnations of gods have to enjoy some of their lives somehow.

I debated leaving. But I was stubborn, and I hadn’t found any delicious loot yet.

So I prodded the top of the box. Nothing happened. No sparks.

I took that as a sign, grabbed the side of the lid, and shoved.

Surprisingly enough, it budged.

There was no body inside the tomb. I’d researched this particular incarnation of the Authority, and he’d been obliterated by the flames of one of the Origin Beasts.

Not a particularly fun end, that one.

The tomb was not entirely symbolic, however. Inside, I found something — presumably an item he’d considered important at some point in his life.

A small, rune-covered box.

“A box inside a box. Someone had a sense of humor.” I grinned. Then I took the box and opened it.

No, there wasn’t another box inside.

Instead, there was something far more valuable — a vial of brilliant golden liquid.

“Gotcha.”

I smiled and headed back to Rai.

“Mission complete.” I waved the box at her. “Let’s head home.”