CHAPTER XXIV – A REFLECTION OF THE

FUTURE

I spent the rest of the day studying with Warren, learning every bit I could about attunement functionality and design. The nature of specific functions that had eluded me gradually became clearer, and though I still didn’t understand the language of sub-glyphs well enough to do anything like create my own functions, I had a much better idea of the scope of work that would be required.

He helped me understand the specific attunement functions that changed an attunement into a brand, or vice versa, but those were in the set that I couldn’t access yet. Thus, it wasn’t something I was ready to experiment with.

That was probably for the best. As eager as I was to learn countermeasures for brands, this was one of the subjects where I was very likely to get my hand blown off if I started tinkering too soon.

I’ll figure you out eventually. Then, maybe, I can build in some security features of my own to prevent external tampering.

…And learn how to remove the brand functions entirely, someday.

It was late in the evening when Sera finally returned. I was relieved enough that I almost hugged her.

Almost.

“How’d it go?” I asked instead.

“See for yourself.” Sera reached into a pouch, and then tossed me a crystal.

“Is this…” I frowned, turning it over in my hands.

“A memory crystal. Yep.” She looked…tired. Uncharacteristically tired. “I’m going to eat. We can chat about it when you’re done viewing.”

“Wait. How’d you even get this? Something special from inside the test?”

“Corin. I have a Researcher summon, remember?”

“Oh. Right.” I shook my head. “I suppose it does make sense she could do that. Okay.”

“Come on. Go watch the thing. I’m dying to hear what you think.”

I nodded, then headed up to the bedroom. I gave Sera one last look as I reached the next part of the stairway — something about her was off — but she didn’t physically look injured.

She’d tell me if she wanted me to know, wouldn’t she?…Or maybe this is her way of saying something, I suppose.

I turned the crystal over in my hands.

Hm.

I resumed walking, making my way into the bedroom and sat down on my bed. Turning the crystal over in my hands, I braced myself, then said, “View.”

Then, all at once, my senses were no longer my own.

***It was always disorienting seeing through different eyes, but stranger still when looking at familiar sights through them.

I knew the Transcendence Gateway Crystal’s chamber, but looking at it from a shorter height felt…off. Disorienting. Similarly, looking at Vanniv’s admittedly impressive chest was a lot weirder when my head was barely above chest-level on him.

Fortunately, I — or rather Sera — didn’t stare at him for too long. My gaze shifted to the crystal. “This is the second-to-last round, then?” And then after a moment she continued, “Excellent, thank you.”

That brought two major things to my attention.

First, this crystal apparently only covered the last two rounds, which was good, because I hadn’t been wise enough to ask Sera how long I’d be stuck inside her memories. It would have been supremely awkward to have to sit through six or more hours of trials, so I was fortunate that this was toward the end.

Second, Sera was presumably communicating with the crystal via telepathy like I had…but I couldn’t hear that through the memory crystal. It made sense, given that telepathic communication was essentially thoughts, and thoughts weren’t recorded…but it was going to be hugely inconvenient in terms of understanding what was happening, especially if she was sending mental commands like I had from time to time.

“Shall I go and provide a show?” Vanniv asked.

Sera glanced at a wall of the room, which showed an illusory projection of her own front chamber. It was structured quite differently from my own:rather than being virtually empty, the room had two stone statues — most likely golems — and a treasure box standing between them. The statues were positioned to have their hands outstretched toward the treasure box, as if offering it.

There was only a single obvious exit, which was located on the north side of the chamber and seemingly unlocked. The right wall of the room was very obviously cracked, however, in a pattern designed to attract attention. Presumably, it led to a “secret” path that would be obvious to anyone who took the barest glance at it. Accessing it would be trickier, although I expected that most high-level attuned who noted it would have some way of blasting through it.

There were no obvious challengers yet. Much to my chagrin, Sera was only looking at the part of the wall displaying the entrance chamber, and thus, I couldn’t get a good idea of the layout of the rest of her constructed dungeon yet.

“Give it a moment…”

A pair of intruders walked in the front door.

The first was a tall man wearing a long coat and two pistols holstered on his belt. No, not Jin in his Blackstone Bandit garb, although admittedly there were some similarities in the outfits. This man was much larger in build and wore a fashionable suit beneath his coat. He wore a hat as well, but flatter than the style of Jin’s. I thought it complimented his beard very well.

My heart jumped when the second entrant came in the door.

That can’t be…He was shorter than the first entrant, but the unrolled sleeves of his white shirt showed heavy muscle. He had no visible attunement marks. He wore a hat, too, but one that came to a narrow point. Two shortswords sat on his hips, as well as a crossbow, a coil of rope, and several pouches. He rested a bone-white hatchet against his shoulder, scanning the room as soon as he came in and giving an appreciative whistle. “Not bad. Think they’re mobile?”

The taller man gave the statues an appraising look. “Hard to tell from here.” Then he raised a hand in the other man’s way and said. “Wait, wait. Hold on. Mechanics check.”

“Fine, fine. Could be timed, too. Make it quick, Kester.”

The larger man groaned in something that must have been agreement, then reached down to his belt and removed a thin cylinder. He pressed a button on the side, then made a whipping motion, causing the cylinder to expand into a long pole. With the pole, he began to methodically tap sections of the floor of the room.

The shorter man waited just a moment, then noted aloud, “Fantastic articulation. They look like…what, granite? Do you think they’re hollow?”

“Working, Lars,” the other man — presumably Kester — groaned. And there it was. Confirmation.

That younger, hatchet-wielding adventurer was a much younger Lars Mantrake, owner of the Climber’s Court.

Seeing Keras in the shrine had been a bit of a shock, but most of the panic had come from my knowledge that I was absolutely doomed if he possessed a fraction of his actual combat ability.

This was a very different sort of surprise.

Like…holy goddess, Lars actually had an adventuring career? He hadn’t made it all up?I mean, I knew Keras had said he’d met Lars out in the Unclaimed Lands at one point…but he’d said Lars was a quartermaster. This wasn’t exactly quartermaster work…except maybe it was, given the way Lars was eyeing those statues.

When Kester said, “clear” and Lars walked up to the statue with measuring tape, things rapidly clicked in my mind.

Maybe this wasn’t so far off, after all. Sera mumbled, “He wouldn’t.”

“Likelihood of a trigger occurring?” Lars asked.

Kester raised some kind of lens over his right eye, groaned, and then clicked another button on his pole. He tapped it against the floor again in a few different sections, then hesitantly collapsed it, picked up another tool, and pressed it to the back of the left statue’s neck.

For a moment, I expected him to get smashed to bits when the statue came to life, but no such thing happened. “Mechanism is tied to the box and the door. Need to inspect the box first.”

“Mimic?”

“Unlikely, but…” There was a blur as Kester’s hand went down to his hip, blurred, and then a loud crack resounded in the air. The front of the boxsplintered in an instant. “Nope.” Lars kicked the top off the box.

It was empty, save for a piece of paper. I couldn’t quite read it from my vantage point, but fortunately, Lars read it aloud. “Lay thee down thy iron if thy true heart wishes steel.” He turned to Kester, dropping the page back inside. “Magic?”

“Don’t see any.” Kester leaned down, knocking around the frame of the box with a gloved hand. “Mechanical trap on the bottom. Probably triggers if something of sufficient weight is left inside.”

“Opens the door?” Lars asked.

“Probably, or activates the statues. I’m leaning toward opens the door.” “Perfect, perfect.” Lars shifted his shoulders, then said, “Get the bag.” Then, with no further hesitation, he chopped off the left statue’s arm. “Oh, come on!” Sera half-shouted from the safety of the crystalchamber. She was apparently distant enough that the invaders didn’t hear her, since they didn’t react. I didn’t get a good idea of how large the dungeon was.

Nearby, Vanniv laughed deeply. “Shall I go and intervene before those ruffians disassemble too much of your puzzle?”

“No,” Sera groaned. “It’s fine. I probably just won’t make a profit on this one. You can go do the boss room thing.”

“Splendid!” Vanniv clapped his hands, almost in time with Lars’ next chop slicing another piece off the statue. “I shall depart forthwith.” He bowed, then moved, presumably out of the room. Sera didn’t watch him.

She just watched those poor, innocent statues get chopped to bits, while Lars tossed the pieces in a pile.

While Lars chopped, Kester lifted each piece, briefly appraised it, then tossed it into some kind of large sack.

I desperately wished I could laugh. They were looting the puzzle. Truly, this was the work of adventurers.

Lars, I’m sorry I ever doubted you.

When they eventually finished picking up all the statue bits, including cores that confirmed that these were golems, Lars lazily tossed an arm into the box. There was a click, but the door didn’t open.

Kester walked to the door, knocked on it, lifted some sort of tool to listen at it, then said, “It’s unlocked.”

“Huh.” Lars lifted his hatchet. “Neat. Say, how much do you think we could get for that wall over there?”

Kester turned his eyes toward the cracked wall, appraising, and then said, “Can’t know until we find out.”

At that point, they began stealing the dungeon wall.

***Minutes passed as Kester and Lars systemically disassembled that wall, the traps in the room beyond that wall, the treasure box within those traps, and finally, the treasure box that had been in the entrance.

Then, finally, having earned a bag of gemstones and a considerable amount of rubble and wood, they set up near the sole door in the entrance room and stole that as well.

“You’re punishing me, aren’t you?” Sera asked the crystal. “This is punishment for my tactics. For my hubris.”

If there was any reply from the crystal, it made no visible sign.

While Sera was complaining, Kester and Lars stole the huge lock that had once been on the door. Then, finally, they stepped through the doorway into the next chamber.

The next room involved a series of pit traps with a gigantic four-bladed trap whirling in the center. It looked kind of like a circular fan, just a whole lot sharper. The fan-like trap’s spinning death blades managed to cover nearly the entire room, so stepping inside much further would have been a significant risk.

Rather than attempt the timing necessary to evade the whirling blades as designed, Kester jammed the blades by throwing a pot of some kind of adhesive into the mechanism at the center of them. Once it had significantly slowed, Lars hurled his axe into the ceiling above the trap. From there, Kester removed a device from his belt that fired a grappling hook, which caught on the axe, and used that to pull himself above the blades.

Then, slowly, Kester lowered himself to the top of the still-slowly- spinning device, stood on top of it, and began to jam small rods into the adhesive until it stopped entirely.

Once that was done, he removed the most mundane of all tools: a screwdriver. “You’re on bag duty,” Kester said.

Lars hopped over, crossing twenty feet in a single bound, pulled out a giant sack of his own and held it out.

Then, slowly, Kester unscrewed the four blades of the trap and tossed them into the bag.

“I am quickly beginning to understand why Selys has some adventurers murdered,” Sera mumbled.

I could see her perspective, given that they were slowly disassembling and stealing her entire dungeon.

Personally?I found the entire thing absolutely hilarious, and I suddenly felt as if I had a new idea of what I wanted to do when I grew up.

The next room involved a handful of snake-like humanoids with scales on their upper body and entire snake-like tails instead of legs. Nagas or something, maybe? I could never remember the difference between nagas and lamias.

Anyway, rather than fighting them, Kester immediately began speaking in some kind of strange hissing language. The four might-be-naga things stood up straighter on their tails, hissing once, then one of them slithered forward and responded in seemingly harsh tones.

“Weapons down,” Kester said in Valian. “Don’t show your teeth.”

Lars lowered his axe, which he’d retrieved from the ceiling of the previous room. “They selling?”

“We’ll see.”

The next few minutes involved a series of unintelligible discussions between Kester and the snake-like creatures, involving considerable gesticulation and occasionally sticking out their tongues at strange angles.

This concluded with Kester pouring half a broken golem out of a bag and trading it for a two large, curved swords and a handful of scales from each of the snake creatures.

Then, each side seeming satisfied with the trade, they parted ways with some kind of amicable gesture of butting their heads against one another.

I had no idea what to say to that.

In the next room, they found Vanniv.

“Hello!” Vanniv waved cheerfully as he hovered above a pit of lava.

Small fire elementals crawled in the lava below. The room had no floor. “Greetings, karvensi friend!” Kester waved. “Any chance you could letus across?”

“Absolutely, yes! I would be quite happy to. Please, come in so we can talk.”

Kester and Lars exchanged glances.

“You know, we would,” Lars said, “But we couldn’t help but notice that your floor is missing. Now, no need to be embarrassed about that: I have some very high-quality flooring material that I just purchased, and I’d be more than happy to sell it at a reasonable price.”

Lars was very clearly attempting to sell Vanniv the walls from earlier in the dungeon. This was, perhaps, the most enterprising financial move I had ever witnessed, and I admit to being somewhat awestruck.

“Ahah!” Vanniv seemed less so, although still amused. “A wonderful suggestion. I was just noticing how terribly difficult this place would be to traverse for walking-type folks, you know? But alas, I’m not much of a builder. If you wanted to, say, construct a floor for the room, on the other hand…”

“That sounds like a perfectly excellent idea.” Lars smiled. “What are you offering?”

Kester groaned, leaning closer to Lars. “I might remind you that lavakills us, Lars.”

Lars shrugged. “Eh, if he’s offering enough we’ll sort that out.” Sera whispered something into the air.

Vanniv’s smile brightened. “If you’re willing to go get a crew and begin the renovations immediately, I can offer you safe passage to the crystal chamber and one boon for every participant. This is, however, a limited time offer. Maximum of six people, and you’ll need to complete the floor within two hours.”

Kester and Lars exchanged glances. “Unlikely.” Kester mumbled.

“But plausible,” Lars countered, wheels clearly turning in his expression. “Worst case, we simply show back up with four more people, and what, start over?”

Kester shook his head. “Worst case, coming back with four more people ends up convincing the crystal that humans cannot be trusted. It then triggers a catastrophic magical event that obliterates all of humanity.”

“Hm. That would be bad. I’d lose a considerable number of my customers.”

“You’re…never mind.” Kester sighed, rubbing his forehead. “Actual risk factors are largely limited to failure. We persist in this course and succeed, two boons maximum. If he’s telling the truth, we up it to six and avoid additional challenge rooms, which could be substantial.”

Lars groaned, took one more look at Vanniv’s brightly grinning face, then looked back to Kester. “Three times return is worth the risk.”

“Right. Go time.”

Kester pulled something out of his pouch — a bell — and rang it once. Then they were gone.

Sera breathed a sigh of relief. A moment later, Vanniv flapped his way back into the crystal chamber.

It took longer than I expected: apparently Vanniv wasn’t in the last room, but one toward the middle.

“Thank you, Vanniv.”

“Of course! I think your suggested reward was perfect in scope. Just enough to make it sound worth the gamble.” He gave her an appreciative nod. “We make an excellent team, yes?”

“We certainly do. Thank you again.” She turned to the crystal. “So. Last round, then?”

With a groan, she added. “It’s him, isn’t it?”

Then she sighed. “Very well, then. How much would it cost to retrieve the things they took out of the dungeon?”

There was a pause, then Sera took on a contemplative expression. “Hm. Cheaper than a full replacement, even with the rebuilding costs. Do that, then…wait. Can you retrieve something that was taken out of the dungeon by someone earlier? Like, say, a bag of gems prize, or…”

More silence as the crystal replied. From Sera’s grin, apparently it was an affirmative. “Excellent.” She clapped her hands. “I know how we’re going to play this. Let’s get to work.”

Minutes passed as Sera oversaw the repairs of the dungeon. And then, as expected, Keras Selyrian appeared at the entrance. Well, I considered, at least I already know Sera doesn’t die.

***Keras stepped into the first room of the chamber, inspecting the newly- repaired statues and the treasure box.

With a growl, he approached the box immediately. There was a blur as he sliced the top off so quickly I didn’t even process his movement.

“Hm. Not a mimic.”

…I was beginning to wonder if all adventurers eventually had some sort of mimic-related trauma. If so, apparently I had something to look forward to.

Keras knelt down, cautiously inspecting the note and entirely ignoring the gigantic stone statues. “Huh. Iron to steel, eh? What do you think of that, Dawn?”

Silence.

“…Dawn? Did you fall asleep again?”

It was almost heartbreaking to watch him reach down to the golden- hilted sword at his side and pat it, an expression of concern on his face. “… Must have overworked her. Or…” He shook his head. “Nah. Can’t be. Okay. Iron. Could be saying I’m supposed to disarm into the box — zero chance of that — or just saying that if I leave something here, I get something superior later.”

He paused, seemed to contemplate for a moment, then pressed something on his belt and whispered a word. There was a flash, then an unfamiliar gold-hilted dagger appeared hovering in mid-air.

I blinked. That was a new trick. I’d seen him with daggers worn on his back during the fight with Katashi, but that belt thing was new. Did he have some kind of extra dimensional item that he hadn’t shown off?I tried to get a closer look at the belt, but I couldn’t. My viewpoint was fixed, and Sera wasn’t looking at it.

Keras dropped the dagger in the box. Nothing seemed to happen. With a shrug, he said, “Guess I’ll check back later,” and walked to the cracked wall.

He punched the wall. It exploded.

Once again, I shuddered. If Keras…even this copy of Keras…had hit me with any intent to cause serious harm, I’d look a lot like the splintered bits of gravel on the sanctuary’s floor, except, you know, bloodier.

Keras whistled to himself as he inspected that room, catching an arrow out of the air and then hurling it to jam another trap that shot up from the floor. With a hop, he crossed over a pit and reached a treasure chest in the center, cut that in half, and then grabbed the bag of gems out of it.

Without a backward glance, he froze a fire trap in mid-air with a gesture, then hopped back to the entrance room.

With a single touch, he knocked the newly-replaced door off the frame. The next couple rooms went alarmingly fast.

He caught the spinning blade trap with one hand, then snapped it in half and jumped across the pits.

Then, when the snake people attacked, he effortlessly disarmed them, threw them into a corner, and shapeshifted the stone to trap them in place. “Stay,” he instructed.

He got only hisses in return, but they sounded resigned.

When he busted off the door to the next room, there was no Vanniv this time. Vanniv was still waiting with Sera in the crystal chamber.

Keras took one look at the lava floor and fire elementals, then shook his head, reached down, and touched the stone floor of the room he was still standing in.

The floor rippled like liquid and shifted, forming a bridge across the lava. He walked across, casually swatting fireballs from the elementals out of the air with a bare hand.

The next door went down, showing me a room the other two hadn’t reached.

Inside was…a fake crystal. She’d taken my idea.

I didn’t begrudge her for it…much. But it hadn’t tricked Keras, at least when I’d done it. He’d sensed the location of the real crystal. Had she made some upgrades to hers?Either way, Keras paused in front of it.

“Crystal, you know what to do.” There was no obvious confirmation, but then there was a flash as Keras reached out toward the fake crystal. “Looks like that’s my cue,” Sera shook her head. “Sorry, Vanniv. I’m going to need all my mana for this.”

“Understood, it’s no problem. You’ll show me later, yes?” “Absolutely.” Sera grinned. “Vanniv, I dismiss you.” Vanniv vanished.

Then Sera said the strangest words I’d heard in a while, “Spooky murder ghost, I invoke you.”

There was no obvious change at first…then Sera grinned as she began to slowly float just a few inches off the ground.

Then, as she looked at her arm, it began to fade into translucence. “Perfect.”

I’d seen Sera use her invoking powers so rarely that it caught me off- guard, but I quickly processed what she was up to. Invoking gave her access to mana directly from her summons, as well as the ability to use some of their inherent abilities more easily than a traditional Summoner would.

When she’d Invoked Vanniv against Mizuchi, she’d formed stone armor and wings for herself, emulating his own body.

When invoking a ghost, then…could she have managed to make herself incorporeal?That was impressive, if it was true. It also sounded hideously dangerous to do without extensive testing. A mistake with a spell like that could end up with someone getting stuck inside a wall, or a partially incorporeal body that couldn’t breathe, or…I shut those concerns out of my mind. Sera was grinning cheerfully, and she looked fine. I mean, she looked like a ghost, but fine by ghost standards.

She dropped her backpack and most of her gear in the crystal room, picking up only a single item. A sword.

And I groaned when I put together her plan as she floated out of the true crystal chamber, through a trap-filled room and a monster filled one, and then straight through a false wall and into the false crystal room.

Yep, incorporeal. We’re going to have to talk about that later.

At least that lowers the risk that Keras will be able to…no, never mind.

He can punch ghosts just fine. What’s her angle with all this?Nearly entirely transparent now, Sera floated down in front of Keras, then knelt at his feet and stretched out her arms, presenting a sword of blue crystal. “Great hero, Wielder of Dawnbringer, you have come in a time of dire need. The Sun Eater rouses in his prison, his foul minions scouring our world and preparing for his conquest. You have proven your worthiness, gifting this shrine with a blade: and so I offer you one in turn.”

“Keras Selyrian, I offer this as your boon: Ceris, the Song of Harmony.”

I would have covered my face with my hands in abject dismay if I could have.

Really, Sera? Really?Of course, Keras couldn’t see my reaction. He looked down at Sera’s spectral form, a look of surprising sadness on his face and whispered, more to himself than to her, “Oh…oh, no. Please…not another one.”

“The burdens of a hero are heavy, but…you are the only one who can save us.” Sera looked up with wide, pleading eyes. “Please, hero. I know I ask too much of you, but so many of us have already fallen. Do not let our deaths be in vain. Please…take this sword. The last legacy of a forgotten world.”

Keras hesitated, but… She’d nailed it.

His hand reached out, grasping the offered hilt, and he said. “Rest easy, spirit. I will not fail you.”

And then, with the utmost reverence, he lifted the sword high, making some kind of salute.

Then Sera, bless her callousness, whispered, “…Thank you…now, to rest I can finally return…”

And vanished from sight.

…Having activated my circlet with the activation word “return”, which she’d managed to more-or-less seamlessly work into the end of her spooky ghost dialogue. She reappeared in the crystal room, next to where she’d set the circlet’s anchor.

Breathing heavily, she turned to the wall…and watched as Keras gave one final bow of his head to the departed “ghost”, saluted the crystal, and turned to leave.

When Keras stepped out the front door, he vanished.

Sera burst into laughter. “I cannot believe that worked. Oh, Keras…why are you so…archetypical?” She snorted, clapped as she continued laughing, and then turned to the crystal. “Okay, now I’ll pay the mana to bring Ceris back here. I think we’re finally done.”

***Ceris reappeared next to Sera a moment later, then gleefully she picked it up, sheathed it, and laughed again. “Okay. So, crystal. I think I’m due for a boon.”

Silence. I still couldn’t hear the crystal’s response.

“Excellent. Now, let me give you some important context. I’ve got this mana scarring because of a potion-related incident…”

***Sera was already upstairs by the time I finished the crystal. When I sat up from the bed, she turned toward me. “Good work, right?”

She wore a smile plastered over her face like a mask. Her voice was just as ragged as before she’d entered the shrine. No, maybe worse.

That means…I returned her smile as best I could and tossed the crystal back to her.

She caught it deftly.

She’ll talk about it when she’s ready.

I gave her an appraising look. “So, I didn’t see the start, but the box at the entrance…”

“People kept leaving things there, thinking I would give them upgraded versions later in the dungeon. It fits the transcendence theme, so they thought it was a plausible idea.”

“How many?”

“About half, meaning five people left something there, including Keras.”

“And those items…”

She lifted the Jaden Box. “Stored inside. They’re real, and the crystal let me keep them.”

“By real, do you mean that they actually function outside of the shrine?”

She shrugged a shoulder. “Haven’t done any extensive testing yet. I’m presuming they’re like…”

“That item Keras got from the simulacrum of his other friend when he went through the spirit shrine. That makes sense. Good idea. I liked the trickery with Ceris, too. I don’t know if I would have risked it, but…”

She waved a hand. “You’re so risk averse! I mean, except about dying. For some reason, you’re perfectly willing to risk death to finish a simple shrine.”

“Hey, now. I’ll have you know I’m not only okay with risking death. I also risk maiming on a regular basis.”

Sera snorted. “Point conceded. Very well. Any other questions or commentary?”

“Well, I do think using Keras’ heroing background against him like that was a little mean, and when that version of him gets his memories back he’sgoing to be very embarrassed…but I suppose that’s a good learning experience. Honestly? No stones to throw. Good work, Sera.”

Sera beamed. “My, you’re full of compliments today.”

“I’m in a good mood. You’re back here and whole. Isn’t that all I could ask for?”

Sera briefly froze, and I realized I’d just made a mistake. “…Whole.” I winced. “I…I’m sorry, Sera. I didn’t mean.”

“No,” she turned away. “It’s fine. I…knew it was a long shot. And I did get a good boon, if not the one I wanted.”

“What’d you end up getting?”

“Something like what you did, but...” She gestured to the room around us. I got her meaning.

A bond to the crystal, then, and she doesn’t want to discuss it while we’re still here. Might be the same type of bond as mine, might not be.

“That’s a solid choice. And you got some loot out of the visit, too.

Excellent work. We can talk about it more on the way home.”

She made a mock clapping gesture. “Congratulations. You’re getting better at remembering to be subtle.”

“And a compliment for me as well? What is this? Are we still illusions in the shrine? This seems fake.”

Sera laughed, but the laughter seemed…cracked. And not just because of the damage to her throat. I’d definitely messed up. I…wanted to fix it, but I had a habit of making things worse when I tried.

I tried anyway. “The deal with Farren. Did you decide if you’re…”

“I’m not.” Sera turned her head down, gazing at the floor. “As funny as it was to fake giving up Ceris, I absolutely wouldn’t do it in reality. Not even if she’d give me five attunements for it. And, knowing what we know about Farren now…”

“Artificial attunements would just give her more control over you. Yeah.” I nodded. “I agree. Is it back to pursuing Ferras herself, then? I still have the token. I could try to ask…”

“Thanks, Corin, but…we’re out of time. Vacation is over. I’m just going to…” Sera went quiet.

“We could stay in Caelford a bit longer. Find a way back that’s faster than the train. Maybe Len could get us to Caelford, let us go in the tower, then carry us—”

“No.” Sera covered her eyes. “It’s…okay, Corin. I’m done.”

There was a pause, then… “I’m done.”

After that, she fell silent, and I didn’t know what else to say.

Instead, I moved to her bed, sat down next to her, and patted the spot next to me.

And without a word, she laid her head against my shoulder and cried.

***Late that night, after Sera had fallen asleep, I heard a knock on the door. Once again, Vanniv checked it with me. It wasn’t Constantine this time, though.

I found Len waiting outside. “I understand that you’re leaving tomorrow?”

I nodded. “That’s the plan.”

“Well, then, I have lessons that I owe you. Is this a good time?” I glanced back at Vanniv.

“I can handle things here. Go on, shoo.” He waved at me. I turned back to Len. “Lead the way.”

Len turned without another word and headed up the stairway, stopping at an unfamiliar room. She opened it, taking me into a small study, and took a seat at the solitary table. I closed the door behind us, then sat down.

“I won’t have enough time to teach you quite as much as I’d like, but there’s one particular thing that I promised you in specific, and I honor my debts.”

“The Jaden Box. You can teach me how to recharge it?” I asked.

“Yes, I can teach you the method, although I can’t promise that you’ll be able to use it with any degree of efficiency. Your magic is fundamentally different and adapting it to this purpose may prove to be a challenge to you.”

I nodded. That was within expectations. “Should I get it out?” “Please.” She gestured.

I removed the box and sat it on the table in front of us. There was still a paranoid part of me that worried she might try to steal it, but if my suspicions about her level of power were correct, keeping the box in my pouch wouldn’t have made it any more secure than it was on the table. “So, what do I need to do?”

“First, we need to lay some foundations. You’re familiar with Valian runes, of course, but I presume you’re not familiar with Mythralian-style dominion marks?”

I waved a hand in a “sort of” gesture. “I’ve heard of them, but I haven’t actually worked with them.”

“Well, it doesn’t matter overmuch. These runes,” she pointed at the symbols on the box, “aren’t dominion marks, either. They’re more similar, so I was going to use that as a starting point, but we can just discuss them separately. The Jaden Box is Artinian in origin. It was crafted using one of their local forms of magic, called ‘Spirit Arts’. Are you familiar with those at all?”

“Barely.” I shook my head. “I’ve read a smattering on the subject, and Keras mentioned a few things, but nothing of substance.”

“Understood. I won’t go into Spirit Arts in much detail, either — I’m no expert at them — but the relevant thing that you need to know is that these runes are in the Artinian glyph language. Thus, if you need to look up the functions of any of the runes on the box based on their appearance, that’s what you’d need to reference.”

I nodded. “Okay. How do these differ from Valian runes in functionality?”

“Artinian glyphs are more like what you’d call compound runes here — each individual symbol often contains more than one component part. There’s also a different overall philosophy to their magic storage. See this?” She pointed at one specific rune, which looked sort of like a “V” shape.

There were a few similar ones on the box. “Sure, what’s that?” I asked. “You know how Kaldwyn-style items tend to store magic inside anentire object, and have capacity runes to prevent the item from bursting? Artinian-style items function differently, at least in most cases. This is a storage rune.”

“Oh! So, it stores mana inside the rune itself, rather than the whole object?” I asked.

“Exactly. This makes it less likely for there to be conflicts if you put distinct types of mana in the same item, and it also prevents that bursting problem. The storage rune effectively has a built-in maximum capacity, and the box’s recharge functions simply stop when the storage rune itself is full.”

I nodded in understanding. “Some more advanced items made by our local Enchanters have things sort of like that, too. It’s necessary for any item that mixes a high amount of antithetical mana, like putting enhancement and transference in the same item.”

“Excellent, that makes this simpler, then. So, if you want to recharge the box, you need to locate each of the storage runes, determine their maximum capacity, and determine the specific composition of mana they’re intended to carry. After that is the most challenging part: you’ll need to actually construct the right mana composition to push into the runes. And virtually all forms of Artinian enchantments contain some portion of what you’d call spirit mana. Given that Enchanters do not have access to that mana type, I’m not certain you will be able to readily make use of this information.”

I grinned, thinking about the spirit mana battery safely hidden inside the box. “Oh, I don’t think that’ll be an unsolvable problem. But as for the previous parts…do standard Kaldwyn-style capacity detection spells work for this?”

“No, but I can teach you a spell for determining an Artinian spirit rune’s capacity. It’s only a slight variation of your existing capacity detection spells, so it shouldn’t be hard to learn, especially if you’ve learned any spirit detection spells.”

“I have.”

“Impressive.” She nodded. “I can teach you that spell tonight, then, as well as the one for detecting the necessary mana composition within the rune.”

“Could you help me try to recharge one of the runes tonight as well? I’d like to have some oversight before I try it myself.”

“Certainly. I’d be pleased to do anything that might accelerate bringing Wrynn here.”

I…wasn’t quite as thrilled about that, actually, but I tried not to let it show. At least our group had access to a dimensional bag now, but that felt so inferior to the box that I wasn’t ever going to be satisfied with it. “Could you teach me more about the other runes on the box as well?”

“We’ll have to see if we have time. Would you like to start learning the necessary spells?”

I nodded. “Let’s get to it.”

***We worked throughout most of the night. In the end, I didn’t have enough time to learn about more of the runes — or glyphs, as she called them — but I did figure out the most important parts. I learned two new spells: Identify Spirit Glyph Capacity and Identify Spirit Glyph Composition, and I proved capable of casting them both. Both spells only required mental mana to use, not spirit mana.

After that, Len formed a few small crystals of spirit mana — her mana manipulation skills were impressive — and she let me practice attempting to mix those with my own mana types to get the right compositions to recharge some of the runes on the box.

This was mostly successful; I was able to complete the process on a glyph that required a mixture of spirit mana and transference mana by mixing them in the right quantities. I was not, however, able to recharge all of the necessary runes for the box to function: I needed air and travel mana for that. I didn’t have either of them.

I knew how to get access to both — Sera had them. If I wanted to recharge the box faster, I could probably do it with her help…provided I made a container for her to fill with mana, or she learned how to make mana crystals on her own.

Given that hurtle, the recharging the process wouldn’t be quick, but I could say that I’d made serious progress on that path.

Maybe I’ll see if Sera and I can make a travel battery at some point.

Might be a good investment toward some teleportation items, too.

I was too tired to put that one on my physical list, but I hoped I’d remember it later. I went to sleep feeling fulfilled.

***In the morning, we packed up to leave. Sera was doing a little better, but she wanted a little time to wake up alone, so I took the opportunity to go down and meet Warren for one last meal and some last-minute questions.

I found Warren sitting downstairs, looking at least somewhat coherent. I sat down across him, accepted a cup of tea, and got to the query process. “Aside from visages, how does someone get restricted attunements?”

“They weren’t always restricted. That’s just the name for attunements that come out of the Spider Spire.”

“…So, that’s real, then. It exists.”

Warren nodded amiably. “Yes. I’ve met people who have been there. No, I haven’t been there myself, nor do I know where it is. Neither do the people who visited — their memories were wiped clean.”

“I don’t suppose you could introduce me to these people?”

“No. We’re not on good terms. Ask your sword-obsessed friend sometime.”

I grunted. More things Keras had apparently been keeping secret. “Does that mean these restricted Arbiter functions were much more broadly available at some point? That seems…off.”

“You may be right. I don’t know. Remember that attunements have generational changes, however, and it’s possible that some of the functions that make the Arbiter unique these days didn’t exist back at that point. Even shrouds didn’t always exist. I wish I had a set of notes for what each attunement generation provided, but sadly…” He held his hands up in a gesture of surrender.

“Got it. Maybe if I ever meet Ferras, I’ll ask if she has a list.” Warren laughed. “Good luck with that.”

I sighed. “Okay. What about ascended attunements?”

“The seventh spire.” He gestured at one of the walls of his tower, presumably pointing in a direction. “That is where they come from, I think. I have been trying to find a way inside for many years, but it has eluded me.”

“Keras mentioned something about uniting the Six Sacred Swords…?”

Warren laughed. “The scriptures have a vague line that could be read that way. Good luck with that. Given that one is broken and some of the others are worse, that’s a lost cause if I’ve ever heard one.”

“But Sera ascended without going to the spire, so clearly there’s a way to do it. Is that one of those hidden functions I’ll be able to see at Citrine- level?”

“No.” Warren shook his head. “At least, it wasn’t twenty years ago. Attunement design has changed. Perhaps there’s a latent ascension function in every current-generation attunement. I wouldn’t be surprised if Ferras made significant alterations within the last few generations. Something happened a few decades back that…spooked them, I think. I still don’t know what it was, but their behavior changed for a time.”

“You worked directly for Ferras, right? She didn’t tell you anything?”

“I had about as much contact with Ferras as you’ve had with Katashi. A bit more, perhaps, but not enough to have significant insight into her character. I had more exposure to Wydd…and that was more than enough to make it clear that the visages do not have the best interests of humanity at heart.”

“Care to elaborate on that?”

He shook his head. “It’s…too much. I don’t think I can get into that today. I’m sorry. My mind is…”

“I understand. You’ve already taught me a great deal. Thank you.”

“I know all too well how frustrating it is to have questions that no one is willing to answer. Perhaps if you return sometime, after I’ve had a few months to recover…?”

I smiled. “I’d like that.”

***After we finished our meal and talk, it was time to go home. Or, more specifically, time to get back to Caelford, catch a train, and then ride for two weeks to get home.

I felt a pang of loss when Len took us away from that majestic spire. Warren Constantine was…I don’t want to say he was the friendliest person, or the most informative, but…He was, I think, someone like me.

I think it was important to both of us to meet each other. To see something like a reflection of the past, or the future.

Seeing what Warren had accomplished brought me great pride……And seeing what he became brought me the worst of fear.

Was it my fate to destroy my own power and hide myself from the eyes of the world in a wasteland?Would I destroy my mind by invoking mental powers I could not afford to in order to assuage my paranoia?Would I be wise enough to give up my own power if I reached a point where it became a greater risk than an asset?Would I even survive long enough to make that choice?…I had a great deal to think about in the days to come, but for the moment, I had only one thing to worry about: going home.

***Len transported us back to Caelford as promised. No backstabbing, no running into the Tails of Orochi along the way. It was refreshing to not be dropped straight into a life-or-death situation for a day or two.

I didn’t have time to visit Annabelle Farren again before leaving Caelford, but honestly, that was probably for the best. We managed to catch the others before they got on the train, just barely.

Patrick and Mara were in great spirits, throwing hugs at Sera as soon as they saw her and politely greeting me from a safe distance.

Cecily looked absolutely exhausted, but otherwise mostly intact. I was half-surprised to see her coming back to Valia with us rather than staying to continue working at Farren Labs permanently, but I was happy to see her. We had a lot to discuss on the ride home.

Keras was uncharacteristically quiet as we boarded. He didn’t look injured, but something was clearly wrong. I didn’t ask immediately. Neither did anyone else, at least not in my sight.

We boarded, stowed our things in the various cars, and then consolidated into one car to talk.

“So,” Sera began, “We’ve been apart for a while. I’m sure we’ve all got stories to tell. Who wants to go first?”

EPILOGUE – HOME SWEET HOMEThe train ride home was, for the most part, much less exciting than the way there.

That’s not to say that I was idle. Not by any stretch of the imagination. I got to work almost immediately, since Keras wanted a day to himself before he got started on the third part of telling us his story. I asked Sera if she wanted to tell us the story about her Judgment back in Valia, since she’d mentioned it on the train ride to Caelford, but she wasn’t quite ready yet.

I still had a ton of things on my “to do” list for the voyage back home, enough that I knew I’d have to prioritize. After some small talk with everyone, I got to work on the first of my tasks.

***Once we were settled in, I asked Sera to give me some space to chat with Cecily for a bit. Sera waggled her eyebrows at me suggestively. I ignored her.

Once we were alone, Cecily and I sat down on the floor of the train car and silently began to set down our tools and materials. We could talk while we worked, and frankly, that made both elements of things easier.

“Any complications with Farren?”

“Nothing beyond what we expected. She has a long game for both of us.

It’s clear she expects us to return: very likely next year, if not sooner.” That wasn’t surprising. “Materials?”

She silently set down a handful of silver discs. “They should be identical to the others.”

“Excellent. Let’s get started.”

Over the rest of that day, we chatted while we worked on more mana batteries. We were getting started on a set for her, since I’d taken all the ones we’d made on our trip there. Once we finished those, we had enough materials to make one more for each of us by the time we got back to Valia.

The new one for my set would require help from Sera and Patrick: we were making an air mana battery, with the expectation that it would be usable to assist Sera in powering her spells, as well as useful for powering eventual future air items.

I’d seen enough flying combatants dominating the battlefield to know that flight was a ludicrous advantage. We’d also run into numerous cases of floor-based traps: pits, spikes, acid, pits of spiky acid, that sort of thing. Patrick and Sera had shown that the majority of those could be bypassed with simple levitation.

During the work on the batteries, Cecily filled me in on her week at Farren Labs. Her education had been more focused on items with composite runes: apparently, her newly-specialized attunement was ideal for comprehending how they were structured and properly creating them. She ran over some of the basics with me, but we didn’t have time for extensive lessons.

I filled her in on what Warren had told me about Farren, as well as Arbiter attunements as a whole. The information was too important to wait for a discussion with the entire group. I needed her to know the risks if she was going to go back to work with Farren in the future.

Aside from that, we talked about making enhancement elixirs. After seeing the results from Mara taking a bunch of them in rapid succession, I was more excited about the idea of brewing some of our own…but we didn’t have the materials, and we couldn’t really afford them.

Not yet.

When I got back to Valia, making some money to fund enhancement elixirs was one of the highest items on my agenda, and I had a few ideas on how to handle that.

Or schemes, one might say.

***After the first day of relative calm, Keras got started on his story again. He seemed…sadder, this time. Atypically subdued. Some of that was probably because of the subject he was talking about: he’d left off on a somber note.

But I think something happened in the Tiger Spire, too. Something he wasn’t quite ready to talk about.

And if he wasn’t going to volunteer that information, I certainly wasn’t going to ask.

Later that evening, I pulled him aside briefly for something else. “Hey. I wanted to tell you that I met Len. Or, if you’re not familiar with that name—”

Keras blinked, seeming more startled than I expected. “Len? Spirit Gateway Len?”

“Yeah…?”

“How? Where was she?”

I spent some time to fill him in on her situation.

Keras rubbed his temples, looking exasperated. “Working with Constantine. Wonderful.”

That last word was heavy on the sarcasm, so I felt the need to clarify. “What’s your problem with Constantine?”

Keras grunted. “Haven’t seen him in a while, but when we met, he was trying to gain magical power through means I considered unethical. Also, raising a monster army. Nothing good ever comes of that sort of thing.”

“…That’s…he probably had a good reason.”

Keras raised an eyebrow. “I’m not so sure about that. Maybe I…” He shook his head. “Another time. I’m too tired to get into all that.”

I probably should have asked if he was okay, but I didn’t realize that was something a person should generally do until days later, and by that point it would have been weird. Instead, I simply said, “Okay. Well, anyway, I just thought you should know that she’s around, and she seems okay.”

“Thanks.” He gave me a nod, but his characteristic smile was missing.

He didn’t even try to force one. “Maybe I’ll look for her sometime.”

I got the distinct impression that he wouldn’t. At least, not any time soon.

Maybe I should have asked why, but it didn’t seem like my place to ask.

***The day went relatively smoothly. Keras continued his story in the morning, still seeming somber and cutting off much earlier than usual.

After that, Sera finally decided to tell us a bit of a story of her own: some of the details of her own Judgment. That was an enlightening experience. That story only took a few hours, but it was fascinating, and it gave me some new things to think about.

During the afternoon, I worked with Cecily on the mana batteries. At night, I had a very different form of practice.

“Selyrian Cutting Style: Sixth Form, Reflective Guard.” I stood atop the train, my long school coat whipping in the wind. My knees were bent forstability and my sword arm was raised in a defensive line, a thin layer of transference mana flowing continuously from my hand to encircle the blade.

My left arm was folded behind my back, making it a harder target and helping to conceal what was within my hand.

On the opposite side of the car, Mara cracked a grin. With a flick of her wrist, a blade constructed from flickering mana extended from her hand. “Selyrian Cutting Style: Fourth Form, Cutting Edge.”

“Ready?” I asked.

Mara snorted. “On guard.”

Then she shot forward in a blur of motion, faster than I’d ever seen her move.

Haste. Accelerated Computation.

When her blade-shrouded hand shot toward the center of my chest, I flicked Selys-Lyann directly into her blade’s path.

My rapid computation processed a minute shift in her right shoulder just before impact. She was going to try to snake around the blade, avoiding contact between her enhancement mana and my transference.

I shifted, too.

Her eyes widened a sliver. She tried to pivot, but she’d already been making a last-minute move. When the blades collided, the force of the impact between opposing types blasted both of our arms apart. I slid backward from the force, turning the movement into a spin — usually the least useful movement in a fight, but situationally, my rapid computation showed that her follow-up punch would miss me entirely if I twirled and sliced at her neck.

As I whirled and avoided the punch as I’d predicted, my sword came around. She ducked the swipe, then slammed the ground. Alarms blazed in my mind and I jumped backward and silently opened my left hand, preparing for Keras’ Stone-Wall Slam technique.

…Just as she’d expected me to.

There was no wall. Instead, the slam had simply managed to get me to jump backward on instinct, and thrown off my balance for her next move: a burst of enhancement mana that shot her forward in a kick.

She flipped head-over-heels in mid-air, sending a shockwave of force from her feet. I sliced upward, neutralizing the attack with an identicalwave of transference mana, then shot myself to the side with a burst from my ring of jumping as she descended in a classic Star Descends from Sky.

I started to bring Selys-Lyann up for a counter when Mara flicked her wrist, sending a tiny shimmering projectile out of her sleeve. Casually, I processed the trajectory and flicked Selys-Lyann to deflect it.

There was a crack as the projectile impacted my blade.

Oh, no, my mind helpfully managed to process as the glass vial exploded in a burst of concussive force, hurling me right off the side of the train.

…Or, it would have, if Mara hadn’t surged forward to grab me by the shirt before I managed to fall off the side. She smirked, hauling me with one hand to set me down on the relatively steady floor beneath us. “Round one to me.”

I groaned, releasing my active spells and sheathing Selys-Lyann at my side. “Using items is cheating.”

“Says the Enchanter with the legendary magic sword and the jumping ring?”

“Okay, fair.” I grinned. “Poof.”

Upon saying my activation word, I vanished, reappearing behind Mara. Then, as she spun around, I flicked my sword to rest under her chin. “Round two to me.”

She blinked at the sword at her throat, then glanced down at our feet to find the silvery disc on the ground. “When’d you drop your anchor?”

“When I thought you were putting up the wall. I still don’t know why I thought you could put up a wall, but yeah. Was planning to drop it right next to the wall, then teleport around it. This worked just fine, though.”

Mara groaned. “Wish I had his metal sense. Wish I had your magic sense, too.”

“Gotta admit, it’s useful. Maybe not as useful as potions in the middle of a sparring match, but useful.”

Mara laughed. “C’mon, reset. Won’t use potions this time. But you should have seen your face.”

“I’m sure it won’t be as lovely as your expression, staring face-down at the surface of the train when the next round is over.”

“Ooh, feisty.” Mara raised her fists. “I like it. Let’s go.” I cracked my neck.

It was going to be a fun night.

***The next several days came and went in similar fashion. It took me close to a week to think to check in on something important with Patrick.

“…Did you ever hear anything from Meltlake after she went into her second Judgment?”

He was her apprentice. If anyone knew the results…But Patrick just shook his head sadly. “Not a word. I…she’ll be okay, won’t she?”

“She’s a legend, Patrick. She has better odds than anyone. It’s probably just taking them some time to find any reasonable challenges for someone as powerful as she is.” I sounded more confident than I actually was, offering the world’s fakest smile along with it.

“Yeah. That’s…probably it.”

We were quiet for a while after that. “Hey, Corin?” Patrick started.

“Yeah?” I braced myself for whatever was coming next. Some horrible revelation, or criticism, or—“I’m glad we’re friends again.”

I blinked. “…Oh.” I took a breath. “Yeah.” My smile was a little more genuine after that. “Me, too.”

***A little later in the week, Sera and I sat down together to talk about something we hadn’t wanted to discuss at Constantine’s tower — our new marks.

“So,” I removed my glove, showing off the symbol of transcendence on my left hand. “You got one, but different?”

“Yep.” She slipped off her own glove, showing me her own distinct symbol. “Figured that if you’ve got the transcendence mana type accessible to you already, I’d ask the crystal for a different one. And I can still get transcendence mana from it, anyway.”

“Why’s that?”

Sera grinned. “Do you want to know why Keras took my fake crystal a little more seriously than yours?”

“I’d wondered if you’d put more mana into it, or maybe…” I froze. “Wait, did you summon a copy of the crystal?”

Sera laughed. “You got it. I have a crystal contract. And that’s on top of my shiny new mark.”

“Wait, wait. Hold on. That crystal predates Selys. I thought pre-Selys monsters usually weren’t compatible with Summoner contracts?”

“That’s generally true, but there are workarounds, and I’ve been looking into them for a while. There’s one particular contract I’d been trying to sort out for months, so I studied that a bit during my time at Farren Labs. Between what I’d recently learned and what the crystal already knew, we were able to cobble together a functional contract spell. It’s not dissimilar from how the bonds on our hands work, after all: they both involve forging a two-way mana and spirit connection. Summoner contracts are just designed to connect directly to an attunement, and thus, enable specific functions that something like a standard crystal bond doesn’t.”

“Interesting. Does that mean you’d be able to contract other monsters that aren’t normally eligible for contracts?”

She grinned. “That’s the goal, but it’s sort of a case-by-case thing. In this case, the crystal was able to facilitate a lot of that on their end, but I learned a lot. I think I’ll be able to crack doing it on my own eventually… and then, I’ll have some very powerful new options to pursue.”

I probably should have asked what she was talking about, but I got distracted easily, and my mind shifted places. “What about null contracts? Have you figured out if you could make one?”

She shook her head. “Sorry, haven’t figured that out yet. I know you wanted to try to sort that out in order to work on some kind of exercise enchantments, and I think it’s a good idea, but I haven’t gotten to it yet. Maybe we can work on it sometime after we get back?”

“Good plan.” I nodded. “I could try to look at your sub-glyphs and figure some of it out from there, too.”

“Sure. I’d still like you to try to compare them to a normal Summoner’s glyphs at some point if we can find one who would agree.”

“Definitely. Being able to figure out what makes an ascended attunement different from a normal one will be extremely valuable.” I couldn’t think of any other Summoners I felt comfortable asking about that sort of thing — asking Elora would be overkill, and have consequences — but I was okay with asking someone Sera trusted. That was a problem foranother time. “Okay. Jumping back. Why even bother getting the mark on your hand if you’ve already gotten access to the crystal through a contract?” “Using	the	crystal’s	magic	through	my	contract	still	uses	my attunement’s mana, but this crystal mark is a whole separate mana source. I can use it without having to worry about my attunement’s mana supply…I just have to deal with the other costs. And beyond that, I didn’t get this particular mana type through my crystal contract. When I make a contract with a monster, I have to negotiate for every type of magic they give me access to: I don’t get all of them. That’s why you always see me using things like ice mana from Seiryu, but not wood. My contract with Seiryudoesn’t cover wood magic. Not yet, at least. I intend to renegotiate later.”

I nodded in understanding. “Okay. So, what mana type does your crystal mark give you?”

She smirked. “Density.”

I whistled in appreciation. “That’s the primary mana type for Shapers.

Do you plan to simulate a Shaper attunement?”

“I won’t be able to go quite that far with just the mana type itself — much of a Shaper’s power is from unique functions, as I’m sure you know— but it’s undeniable that density magic is effective. It also synergizes with summoning extremely well. I can summon Vanniv and then make him equipment using density magic, for example.”

“And it’s a good all-around defensive magic type, too.”

“Absolutely. With enough work, maybe I can even make raw materials you can enchant.”

I pondered that. “Maybe. Standard Shaper-conjured materials have an abysmal mana capacity, but there’s that weird green crystal that Keras mentioned a few times…I think that’s made with density magic, and it can clearly hold enchantments. We can try to figure out how to make that.”

“That’s the plan.” She nodded. “So, density is an easy one, but transcendence magic…have you figured out what that even does? I hadn’t heard much about it prior to meeting the crystal.”

“I picked up a book on it from Warren’s library, and he let me keep it. I haven’t read it all yet, but basically, transcendence magic is all about pushing something beyond standard limits. There are spells for things like turning off your body’s ability to feel pain and exhaustion, for example, which can effectively boost your strength. There are other spells for thingslike focusing your mental resources on a specific task — which frankly horrifies me even more than my Accelerated Computation spell — and spells that overload other spells.”

“Hm. Sounds kind of awful, actually. Lots of risk factors in using anything like that.”

“I wouldn’t call it…awful, exactly.”

“Aren’t you the one who’s always looking to avoid any risks, Corin?”

“I can’t do that all the time.” I shook my head. “Can’t afford to. I just prefer for my risks to be calculated as closely as possible, and this is going to add some new options to my repertoire. If nothing else, things like pain removal spells could be helpful if any of us get injured and I need to treat them.”

“Let’s hope that doesn’t come up any time soon…but yes. I suppose we both know that our troubles are far from over.”

“They’re just getting started. But if this vacation is any indication…our powers are still just getting started, too.”

Sera grinned. “I like the sound of that.”

***The trip home wouldn’t have been complete without at least one mid- journey twist.

We were just over a week into the trip when I was sitting alone in my sleeping car, right up until the point when I wasn’t.

“Hello, Corin.”

I managed a “gah!” and shot to my feet, with my hand blazing to the hilt at my hip as a figure appeared on the opposite side of the room. He was wearing a long black coat, but this time, he wasn’t accompanied by a hood or mask. That made it easier to process his all-too-familiar wicked grin.

I glared at him, deliberately keeping my hand near my sword. “Oh, my, if it isn’t one of the infamous Blackstone Bandits. Should I be clutching my jewels protectively?”

Jin snorted. “It isn’t like that.”

I sat back down, shaking my head. “Oh? No robbery, today? To what do I owe this honor, then?”

Jin leaned back against the opposite wall. “Well, for one thing, I figured I’d let you know I’d be joining you on the trip back to Valia.”

I raised an eyebrow. “What, like…legitimately?”

He nodded. “Got a train ticket and everything.” He flicked a wrist, producing a ticket to display in unnecessarily stylish fashion.

“Jin, no one keeps their train tickets in their sleeves like that.” He shrugged. “They’re missing out.”

I sighed. “…Why are you here, Jin?”

“I told you, I thought I’d let you know that I was going to be on the train. Figured it’d be less awkward this way than just, you know, running into me in a hall.”

I gave him a nod. “Okay, sure, I suppose. Was there anything else?” “Couple more things, actually.” He smiled. “First, I missed you.” “You…” My heart skipped a beat. “Um.”

Jin laughed spectacularly. “Perfect. Just what I was hoping for. Now, one last small thing.”

I narrowed my eyes. “Another magic trick?”

“Oh, no. Although, I suppose I could…” He gave me that wonderful, crooked smile. He lifted his open hands. “You see now, that my hands are completely empty, but…”

I groaned. “Ah, yes. The illusionist’s hands are empty. Go on.”

“But now, with a mere snap of my fingers, I produce…” He snapped.

And in the next moment, he reached out toward me with a single flower purest blue.

I laughed in spite of myself. “Flowers, Jin? Really? We’re not dating.” “Oh, no.” He flourished the flower. “It’s not for you. It’s for yoursister.”

“Wait, what—” My eyes widened as I took in the flower more carefully. Pure blue. Petals that looked almost like frozen tear drops.

My jaw went slack.

“And this concludes my trick.” He flipped the flower around, offering it to me by the stem.

“Is that…”

“Goddess’ Tears. Fresh from Vanreach Peak.” He winked. “And by fresh, I mean extremely fresh. It won’t stay that way for long. You’re going to need to…”

I snatched the flower out of his hands, reached into my pouch, and pulled out the Jaden Box. “Store: Goddess’ Tears.”

The flower vanished into the extradimensional space. Within it, the flower would be preserved, theoretically indefinitely.

“Perfect.” Jin took a step back. “I trust you know how to use it?”

“I’ll get an expert to make the potion, I’m not going to risk messing this up.” I turned my head upward toward Jin. I was conflicted, but… “Jin. Thank you.”

He gave me a curt nod. “You’re welcome. But I didn’t do it for you. Not entirely, at least. You’re not the only one that I owed a debt.”

“Then…”

“Give my best to Sera.” Jin gave me a brief salute. Then, a moment later, he vanished.

I politely declined to comment on the fact that I could still see his aura as he invisibly made his dramatic exit from the room.

***“Jin gave you what?”

I didn’t get to see Sera startled very often. It was, admittedly, a refreshing sight. “Goddess’ Tears. I looked it up again, the pictures match. I’m pretty sure it’s real.”

“Then…”

“Then when we get home, we’ll get an expert to make a potion with it, and you’ll get your voice back. At least in theory.”

Sera closed her eyes, shuddering for a moment. “…Thanks, Corin.” I frowned. “I didn’t do anything.”

“You’re the one who figured out the flower as a possible solution last year. And even if Jin figured that out independently, as opposed to, I don’t know, finding out while he was stalking you—”

“He’s not stalking me.”

Sera snorted. “Sure. Anyway, even if he figured that out on his own, you’re the one with the Jaden Box. Without a means of preserving the flower until the elixir is made, it’s worthless.”

I frowned. “But if it’s fresh, how did he get it here? We’re nowhere near Vanreach. If he was out there, wouldn’t it have been faster to just take it to Valia?”

“Mm, no. He’s probably been in the Unclaimed Lands this entire vacation. He helped with the train robbery in exchange for some kind of favor from the Blackstone Bandit. A mysterious man with the kind ofresources to rob a train owned by Haven Securities, even when it’s in the middle of a route.”

“…So, you think Jin did that whole train robbery thing in exchange for the flower?”

Sera shook her head. “No, no. I do think that’s what he got out of the deal…but I don’t think that was a robbery at all. He told you that in the first place, didn’t he?”

“He did. He implied it was some sort of rescue operation, to…” My eyes widened as I remembered what he’d talked about.

Repaying debts. Who else did he need to repay for his transgressions? Who might be on a train between Caelford and Valia, not as a passenger,but as a prisoner?“…Vera? Was Vera on this train?”

Sera shrugged. “Can’t say for sure. I didn’t check with her brother or Echion, either. Maybe if we’d gone to visit them, we’d have found her at home. More likely, she’s out somewhere in the Unclaimed Lands herself, staying far from the eyes of the visages along with the expedition.”

“Meaning that the Blackstone Bandit is involved with that expedition in some way?” I frowned.

“It’s probable, but not strictly necessary. He could have just dropped her off there…or not. It’s speculation.”

“But why would the Blackstone Bandit even agree to rescue Vera?”

Sera shrugged. “She was deeply connected to the artificial attunement project. He might want information, or he might know her himself. Maybe we can ask him sometime.” Sera smirked. “I have a feeling we haven’t seen the last of the Blackstone Bandit.”

***The rest of the trip was free from any further complications. I saw Jin a couple more times, but I didn’t speak to him for more than a few moments.

Going out of his way to get a flower to help Sera’s condition went a long way toward improving my disposition toward him. Rescuing Vera from what would have likely been a fate worse than death in Caelford was a fairly serious plus, too, if he’d actually done that.

I considered asking, but I wasn’t quite ready to talk to him again. Notyet.

Cecily and I finished the last of the batteries right before we arrived at home in Valia. I wished I had more time to work on additional enchantments, but even with more time, I lacked the materials. That was something I’d have to work on quickly after arriving.

Before we arrived at home, Cecily did one final round of mana checks for each of us with the mana watch. I was a little nervous about getting my mana values again, given my prior obsession, but it was still good to see a measurement of our progress.

Patrick’s mana was up to 140, which was a huge jump from the last time I’d seen it. Two trips into the spire had clearly given him a major benefit.

Sera’s mana growth was even more impressive: she was up to 118, just inches from her original maximum. She looked noticeably more confident now that her mana was getting back into a higher range, and we both hoped her mana would get a huge surge once we used the elixir and continued the healing process for her throat and lungs.

Mara, of course, absolutely stole the show: she was at 370, having continued improving even after she’d gotten the ludicrous boost from Keras’ elixir set that took her up to Sunstone. When we got back to school, I expected she’d be one of the top ten students in the entire academy in terms of mana capacity.

And me? I wasn’t far off.

I was up to 137 in my Enchanter attunement. I’d made a little less mana growth than Patrick, which made sense, since he’d done two tower climbs and I’d only done one. But my Arbiter attunement, which I’d used very heavily, had gotten a solid increase — all the way to 182. I suspected that a large part of that boost came from the time I’d taken the safety off my mana level to fight the copy of Keras. Between the two of them, I was well over three hundred mana now. Combined, I was almost a Sunstone. My Arbiter attunement was over half-way there by itself.

Soon.

I was feeling pretty good about how much growth I’d gotten on the trip, but I found myself eager to get back home. Caelford and the Unclaimed Lands had both been interesting experiences, but I found that I missed my own city streets, my own school, and my own shielded sky. And, of course, my mind turned to the people back at home from time to time, too.

I wonder how Lars is doing.

Thinking about the shopkeeper brought a smile to my face. He was one of the first people I wanted to visit.

I should check in and see how Vellum’s recovery is going, too. And maybe see how Derek’s doing. Maybe he has a new place we can stay at for the next semester, rather than the dorms?I probably should do something nice for him, given how long he housed us. Maybe buy him a nice new door.

It was a little startling to realize that there were people I wanted to see back in Valia.

I have…friends now, don’t I? And mentors, and…I stepped off the train, thinking about the people I wanted to see, and unprepared for the one that I didn’t.

Magnus Cadence stood waiting on the train station platform, resplendent in his long dueling coat.

I walked toward him, my heart racing. “Hello, Father.”

“Hello, Corin,” he said without inflection. He lowered his hands to his side, then brushed aside his coat to expose the belt that held his dueling cane.

“Draw your sword.”

THE ENDAPPENDIX I – RECAP ON KALDWYN’S CULTURE AND MAGICFrom A Lost Letter Attributed to Keras SelyrianI underestimated the complexities of teleporting over to another continent for a seemingly simple mission. I’ve never been great with politics or religion, but they’re omnipresent here.

The defining factor is Selys — a single central goddess figure worshipped by all the major nations. She created six towers on various parts of the continent. Each tower, called a “Soaring Spire”, has tests for people who go inside. If someone succeeds at those tests, they can earn magic powers in the form of a mark called an attunement. It’s basically like what we’d call a dominion bond back at home, but more complicated than any dominion bond I’ve seen.

Anyway, since each tower gives access to different attunements, you can imagine that there are some politics surrounding access to them. At one point, one of the powerhouse nations — Edria — conquered another in order to get access to their spire.

Aside from granting magical powers, the spires also have tests to reach the top. Supposedly, getting all the way up top means you get to choose a boon from the goddess. It’s been done, apparently, but not in recent history. That’s probably what I’m going to need to do eventually, since finding my friends has proven challenging.

Unfortunately, none of the nations here are particularly accepting of outsiders, and I’ve already run into quite a bit of trouble when talking about the outside world. Oops.

Kaldwyn has four major nations, which are referred to as the “Four Powers”, and a couple minor ones like Sytennia and Erawen.

It’s a bit of an oversimplification, but I tend to think of the powers as covering the four cardinal directions of the continent.

Edria is the entire south, and they’re a military powerhouse. Everyone seems to be bracing for Edria to try to conquer the rest of the continent, but it’s been about sixty or so years since the last time an actual war has occurred. It’s split into Edria proper (the original nation) and East Edria (a territory they won from Dalenos that used to be called Kelridge). There’s some tension between the two halves.

Dalenos is the north, governed directly by one of the visages — those are basically the local equivalent of gods, but they’re really more like aspects of a single deity, depending on who you ask. It’s also famous for being a nation of artists and creative-types of all varieties, especially musicians.

Valia is the eastern nation, and they’re best defined by magic. Every nation on Kaldwyn has magic, but Valia has Enchanters — a type of magic- user capable of creating magic items with enviable speed. Enchanters have allowed for large-scale magical infrastructure on a scale I’ve never seen anywhere else: wealthy nobles have magic showers, magic toilets, magic… well, virtually everything. It’s pretty impressive.

Notably, Valia’s populace appears to be largely descended from immigrants (exiles?) from my home continent of Mythralis. I suspect the name Valia itself comes from the same derivation as our nations of Velthryn and Valeria — the worldmaker Velryn. (Valeria used to be called Velrya, but the name shifted over time. Linguistic drift and all that.) I’ve seen some notable family names that are connected to home: things like House Theas and House Hartigan, for example. They’ve even got a place with the name Hastings on it, so maybe some of Lydia’s family moved to Valia? Hard to say.

Caelford is the western-most nation. While Valia focuses on magical innovation, Caelford is more about general engineering. They have advanced firearms, self-moving carts called “automobiles”, and all sorts ofother gadgets. They’re also on the forefront of researching artificial attunements, although I get the sense that Valia is involved in those, too.

Given that I’ve managed to alienate virtually every other nation, I suppose I’ll have to go to Caelford eventually. The Tiger Spire is supposed to be a little more structured than the other local spires, so maybe it’ll be easier to make it to the top this time.

I’m not holding my breath.

APPENDIX II – RECAP ON ATTUNEMENTSFrom A Lost Letter Attributed to Keras SelyrianOkay, so, attunements. They’re probably the single most important thing about this continent, so I should probably go into a bit more detail about them.

Attunements are marks that grant sorcerous powers that are obtained in the Soaring Spires during successful Judgments. They can also sometimes be obtained directly from a visage, but this is relatively rare.

Each Attunement involves a physical mark that appears on the body of the attuned.

Attunements grow stronger as the user's mana increases, changing in appearance and gaining new abilities. For example, most attunements begin to generate a shroud — a form of barrier of mana — around the attuned when the attunement reaches Carnelian level.

Each attunement comes with an iconic function. These are generally called "unique" abilities, but in truth, they can sometimes be accomplished through other attunements or combinations of attunements. For example, the "unique" function of the Elementalist attunement is access to lightning magic...but a Summoner can still get access to lightning magic if they make a contract with a monster that can use lightning. Thus, the term "unique" is something of a misnomer, and it's more accurate to say that they're simply the function that the attunement is best known for.

Every attunement gives access to two or more types of magic when it is first obtained, and generally gives access to a third at a higher level.

It's commonly theorized that attunements are much more advanced forms of enchanting runes that incorporate several functions into a single rune, or perhaps collections of several runes that visually appear to be one rune.

Artificial attunements have been made in Caelford, meaning that they can be reproduced with some degree of success, but the procedures for how they're made are not commonly known.

Diviner AttunementGuardian AttunementElementalist AttunementEnchanter AttunementMender AttunementShadow AttunementShaper AttunementSummoner AttunementAPPENDIX III – RECAP ON ENCHANTINGFrom an Unknown Foreigner’s NotesEnchantments are how people with an Enchanter attunement imbue items with magical power.

The procedure for enchanting an object involves making runes: physical marks that are powered by mana, which is the local term for sorcerous essence.

In order to make a rune, you must carve it into the proper shape and then put in the right amount of mana of the right type. There are a few main categories of runes that are used in the enchanting process.

Function Runes determine what the item can do. For example, a fireball wand would have a fire function rune.

Example: Standard Life Rune.

Activation Runes determine how the item is activated. For example, if the wand is activated by using some of your own mana, it would have a mana activation rune.

Example: Motion Activation Rune.

Recharge Runes are used to cause an item to automatically fill up with mana over time by drawing mana either from the environment or another source. These are not strictly necessary, but they are used in most so-called "permanent" items so that they do not have to be manually recharged.

Example: Life Mana Recharge.

Capacity Runes are used to govern how much mana the item can store. Without them, any item with a Recharge Rune will just keep filling up with mana over time until the object has more mana than it can hold and explodes. That would be considered bad item design.

Example: Life Mana Capacity.

Complex items may involve many different runes.

For example, an item for creating a barrier may require mental mana runes for detecting incoming attacks, then runes to create a barrier when an incoming attack is detected.

Similarly, an item designed to heal the user when they're hurt may require mental mana runes to detect when the wearer is injured. An even more complex healing item might have functions for searching for which wounds are the most severe and prioritizing which order they're healed in, or ignoring certain types of injuries that the item might not be able to heal properly.

Since Enchanters do not have access to every type of mana, they often use items called mana crystals or rely on help from others.

Mana crystals are exactly what they sound like — crystallized magical energy. An Enchanter can draw the mana out of these crystals and use them to power runes. Most mana crystals are found from the remains of monsters inside of the spires, but it's possible for people with sufficient mana shaping skill to make their own crystals from the types of mana they can use. Veteran Enchanters often learn how to make mana crystals so they can make more complex items.

In order to cooperate with someone else to make a rune, an Enchanter must first make a shell that is used to hold the other person's mana inside the rune. This container prevents the mana from simply dispersing into the air while the enchanting process is performed.

Making a shell is a mana shaping exercise that is similar to making a mana crystal, and thus not all Enchanters are proficient at it, especially early in their careers. Mana shells also have a capacity, meaning that a low-level Enchanter can't make a shell that can hold enough mana for something like an Emerald level enchantment.

Well-trained Enchanters can also move mana from one rune to another rune. Completely removing all of the mana from a rune to power another is called “disenchanting”, since the existing enchantment typically ceases to function. This can be a dangerous process for low-level Enchanters because moving mana generally involves passing it through your body to prevent it from dispersing in the air. If you pass mana from another attuned through your body, this can cause mana poisoning.

As such, only Enchanters who have sufficient shaping ability to move mana outside of their bodies or purify the mana inside their bodies generally are capable of safely moving mana between two different objects. (There are some exceptions where this is safer, such as being able to safely move mana between two items you created yourself, or moving mana that has already been purified by someone else.)APPENDIX IV – ATTUNEMENTS OF CAELFORDFrom Corin’s NotesI didn’t actually spend all that much time studying the local attunements. Most of my efforts were spent on the artificial ones — which, I suppose, count as local — but I didn’t get much exposure to the ones that come out of the Tiger Spire.

That said, I did get a basic list and some descriptions of each.

Analyst: Analysts are experts at discerning detailed information about how something works, such as the mechanics behind spells, items, and traps.

Mana Types: Mental (Primary), Umbral (Secondary), Transference (Tertiary)Architect: The Architect attunement is capable of imbuing items with temporary magical properties. These tend to be stronger than permanent enchantments, but only last a matter of days.

Mana Types: Perception (Primary), Umbral (Secondary), Enhancement (Tertiary)Biomancer: Biomancers are one of few attunements capable of safely influencing the inner workings of another person’s mana. They specialize in altering the target’s mana flow, potentiallyimproving both mana capacity and increasing mana regeneration.

Mana Types: Life (Primary), Mental (Secondary), Light (Tertiary)Controller: Controllers are specialists in mental compulsion, capable of forcing others to do their bidding.

Mana Types: Perception (Primary), Enhancement (Secondary), Umbral (Tertiary)Forgemaster: Forgemasters have superior control over metal, allowing them to move quickly even in full armor by subtly altering the armor’s structure while they move. They also can strengthen or alter the properties of metallic objects.

Mana Types: Earth (Primary), Fire (Secondary), Enhancement (Tertiary)Illuminator: The Illuminator serves as a beacon of light and peace to all those around them, shielding allies against negative effects like fear and paralysis.

Mana Types: Light (Primary), Water (Secondary), Air (Tertiary)Sentinel: The Sentinel attunement emphasizes mental fortitude, providing superior resistance against mental spells.

Mana Types: Earth (Primary), Mental (Secondary), Enhancement (Tertiary)Transmuter: The Transmuter focuses on transforming materials into other types of materials, making it immensely potent at construction, as well as destruction.

Mana Types: Earth (Primary), Water (Secondary), Air (Tertiary)APPENDIX V – CHARACTERS AND TERMSFrom Corin’s notesHouse Cadence:Magnus Cadence — Head of House Cadence, father of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Presumably also the father of Sera Cadence.

Laura Lyran — Head of House Lyran, mother of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Emerald-level attuned with the Swordmaster and Elementalist attunements. Member of Valia’s Council of Lords.

Tristan Cadence — Elder son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Disappeared into the Serpent Tower during his Judgment. Presumed deceased.

Corin Cadence — Younger son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Presumptive heir to both houses after Tristan’s disappearance. Earned an Enchanter attunement in the spire. Was given a mysterious new attunement by Katashi, the Visage of Valor.

Sera Cadence — Previously known as Sera Shard, Sera Cadence was legitimized by Magnus Cadence after passing her Attunement exam. She is presumed to be a bastard child of Magnus Cadence. After being legitimized, she is now a potential heir to the house. She’s my age and has a Summoner attunement.

University Staff:Chancellor Mallace — She was in charge of all university activities. Deceased after the battle with Mizuchi at the winter ball.

Lieutenant Commander Jack Bennet — Vice Chancellor, former military commander.

Professors:Professor Edlyn — Assisted with new student orientation.

Teaches Enchanting class.

Professor Ceridan — In charge of Tiger Class. Teaches Elementalists.

Professor Lyras Orden — In charge of Serpent Division and member of the Whispers, an organization that secretly serves the visages. Orden was involved with a conspiracy to kidnap the visage Tenjin, and she betrayed me during a spire expedition in the middle of the first year.

Professor Vellum — Teaches classes on permanent enchantments. Served as my mentor for most enchanting- related studies during the first year. She severely hurt herself rescuing me and other students from Mizuchi during the winter ball.

Professor Conway — Teaches Attunements class. Died fighting Mizuchi at the winter ball.

Lord Jonathan Teft — In charge of Hydra Class. Teaches dueling.

Doctor Tordrin — In charge of Phoenix Class.

Professor Meltlake — General Magic Theory class. Legendary Elementalist and Patrick’s personal mentor. A former member of House Hartigan, she is Derek Hartigan’s aunt. “Meltlake” is a title that replaced her last name after a famous duel where she supposedly set a lake on fire. Has a persistent leg injury and walks with a cane.

Professor Vanway — Teacher for an unknown class. Not one of my professors.

Sir Tanath — A member of the Soaring Wings, and a Summoner. One of Marissa’s teachers.

Professor Vestan — Corin’s Introductory Runes teacher.

Students:Patrick Mayland — One of my childhood friends, now my first retainer. An Elementalist and magical weapon enthusiast. Jin Dalen — A mysterious foreign student from East Edria with a Sunstone-level Mesmer attunement. His family is sworn to House Dalen, the former ruling house of East Edria from the days before it was under Edrian rule. He was badly injured after fighting against me in the Serpent Spire, but escaped using my return bell. We ran into each other again after that, but things have been strained.

Marissa Callahan — One of my classmates. Usually called “Mara” by her friends, but I’m still getting used to the nickname. She’s a Guardian and something of a prodigy for our year. In the second half of the school year, she began training with Keras Selyrian to learn his combat techniques.

Roland Royce — One of Sera’s friends and a former friend of Tristan’s. Diviner. I think Sera may be trying to get him as a retainer.

Cecily Lambert — The younger sister of Yunika Lambert. One of my closest childhood companions. Things between us are a little awkward, since Tristan was engaged to Yunika before he disappeared, and there was an implication that Cecily and I might eventually get married, too. And then there was the training with father…anyway, things are strained, but we’re talking again.

Curtis Maddock — Dorm chief for my dorm. I, uh, probably should have talked to him more. He has two attunements on the same arm.

Lisa Stone — Former classmate from my childhood.

Jordan Jaldin — A second-year student that supervises one of the teams for the final exams.

Katherine Minters — A second-year student that supervised my team for the final exams. Goes by Kathy.

Other People:Lars Mantrake — Shopkeeper for the Climber’s Court, a magic item shop. As a former climber, he has many stories of the spires, almost half of which are probably true. He told me a bit about Selys-Lyann, my sword, and I think he may have seen it in the past.

Keras Selyrian — Mysterious foreign swordsman that I first encountered during my Judgment. Currently serving as my bodyguard in order to get into the good graces of Katashi, the Visage of Valor. He’s taught me a bit of his fighting style, but he uses weird foreign magic, so I haven’t been able to learn all of it. He rescued me from Saffron, a child of the Tyrant in Gold, during the second half of the school year.

Echion — He’s a kid with an experimental artificial attunement that I rescued during my Judgment. His strange attunement seems to be based on god beasts, rather than conventional attunements. I plan to study that style of thing eventually.

Vera Corrington — Tower explorer that I first encountered during my Judgment. I broke her out of a cell, then she stabbed me in the back. Eventually, I found her and escorted her back to the tower, where she turned herself in to Katashi to help prevent collateral damage from some of her actions related to ambushing Tenjin, one of the visages.

Aloras Corrington — Automotive engineer. Vera’s brother.

Derek Hartigan — Heir to House Hartigan, an ancient noble house. Has an Emerald-level Soulblade attunement. We spent the second half of the school year living at his place.

Tavare — Derek’s Summoned blade elemental. Refers to themselves as “Radiance”, which is kind of weird.

Delsys — Derek’s Summoned flame/wind elemental.

Elora Theas — Heir to House Theas, an ancient noble house. She’s an Emerald-level Summoner, Derek’s former (current?)paramour, and has a contact with the God Phoenix. She’s also heavily involved with the same conspiracy that my brother is, but I don’t know what her real goals are.

Sheridan Theas — Elora Theas’ sibling, and a follower of Wydd. Wields the restricted “Necromancer” attunement, but specializes in healing. Derek usually refers to them by the nickname “Deni”. May or may not be flirting with me. Aaaaaah.

Vanniv — A summoned karvensi. Both Elora and Sera have contracts with Vanniv. Somehow fashionable, even when shirtless.

Researcher — A knowledge elemental that resides in the restricted section of the Divinatory.

Yunika Lambert — Cecily Lambert’s older sister, and Tristan’s former fiancée. Still not sure on her angle on all the politics going on.

Meredith Hawkins — A historical figure who supposedly escaped one of the spires after several years of being trapped inside. Commonly believed to be a con artist.

Johannes Edington — An academic who attempted to enter a Judgment and stay inside as long as possible in order to preserve memories of what the rooms looked like. Emerged a few months later and published a paper on his findings.

Annabelle Farren — The owner of Farren Labs, the center for artificial attunement research.

Nakht — A worker for Anabelle Farren at Farren Labs with a strange, shifting aura.

Kahi Zephyr — A guide for Farren Labs.

Ashon — A researcher for Farren Labs with a bit too much interest in my Arbiter attunement.

Archduke Verena — The leader of an Edrian noble house many years in the past. He is seen, along with other members of his family, in a constructed scenario inside the Tiger Spire. Dalen	Mitsurugi	—	An	ancestor	of	Jin	Dalen	in	a constructed scenario inside the Tiger Spire. He was a wielder of Soulbrand, the Sacred Sword of Fire. Note that he uses theDalenos naming style, meaning “Dalen” is his surname, not his personal name. I wonder if Jin prefers that and simply used our naming style while visiting Valia?Jerome Schmidt — An Edrian noble and son of Kaspar Schmidt, who fought my great grandfather in the Six Years War. I studied his fighting style in my childhood.

Emma Verena — One of Archduke Verena’s daughters in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Emery Verena — One of Archduke Verena’s daughters in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Anthony — A manservant for House Verena in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Lady Nora Haven — A member of House Haven in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Caelyssa Ves — Goes by “Lys”. A retainer of House Haven in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Constant Beaufort — A member of House Beaufort in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Len — Short for “Lydia Emulation”. A spiritual copy of Lydia Hastings, a commanding officer of the knightly order that Keras belonged to in his homeland.

Spirit Gateway Crystal — A sentient crystal in the Unclaimed Lands that created challenges for Keras when he entered a shrine.

Transcendence Gateway Crystal — A sentient crystal in the Unclaimed Lands that offers challenges for those that enter the crystal’s home.

Roy — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway crystal’s challenges.

Elina Maryn — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway crystal’s challenges.

Kester Boyd — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway crystal’s challenges. Apparently worked with Lars Mantrake.

Visages:Katashi — Visage of Valor, patron Visage of Dalenos, where he is a central figure in their government.

Melkyr — Visage of Resilience, patron Visage of Edria.

Ferras — Visage of Creation, patron Visage of Caelford.

Tenjin — Visage of Inspiration, patron Visage of Valia.

Currently missing.

Kerivas — Visage of Law, second patron Visage of Edria.

Mydd	—	Visage	of	Forbidden	Knowledge.	Location unknown. Often depicted as a trickster or shapeshifter.

God Beasts:Genbu, the God Tortoise — God Beast of Dalenos.

Seiryu, the God Serpent — God Beast of Valia.

Orochi, the God Hydra — God Beast of Edria.

Byakko, the God Tiger — God Beast of Caelford.

Suzaku, the God Phoenix — God Beast of East Edria.

Arachne, the God Spider — God Beast of (????)God Beast Children:Mizuchi — Deadly serpent, called “Hero’s End”. Child of Seiryu. Believed to be virtually invulnerable.

Other Powers:The Tyrant in Gold — A divine being that is antithetical to Selys, and believed to be comparable to her in power. The scriptures teach that he is in control of the entire world outside of Kaldwyn.

Saffron — A child of the Tyrant in Gold. Tremendously powerful, most likely on a similar level to Mizuchi.

Major Nations:Valia — Nation on the eastern coast of the continent of Kaldwyn. Home to the Serpent Tower and the Lorian Heights Academy.

Edria — Imperialistic southern nation. Conquered Kelridge during the Six Years War and nearly conquered Valia as well.

Caelford — Technologically advanced nation on the western coast of the continent. Allied with Valia.

Dalenos — Theocracy; covers most of the northern side of the continent.

Kelridge — A territory that was a part of Dalenos prior to the Six Years War. Conquered by Edria and now known as East Edria.

Days of the Meek:Tashday 	Kyrsday 	Fersday 	Tensday 	VasdayWyddsdayAPPENDIX VI – CORIN’S TO-DO LISTA Definitely Incomplete List by Corin CadenceTo do list:Research: ArbiterAlso other restricted attunementsChronomancer? Is this a thing?Do not break time Research: Foreign attunementsResearch: Ascended attunements Research: Artificial attunementsGod beast attunements are terrifying 	Do I want one? Several?Research: Crystal marksResearch: Servants of the Tyrant in Gold 	Also the tyrant himselfAlso relationship between him and Selys?Research: Sapphire-level attunements 	Higher than Sapphire?Amethyst? 	Mauve?Mauve not a gemstone and possibly not even a real colorResearch: Other sources of manaHow does this magic work on Artinia? Tyrenia?How can I get these as quickly and easily as possible?Enhancement elixirsDo these work cumulatively with my attunement?Probably?Better mana foodHow did Katashi upgrade Mara’s attunement? Can I do this? Mana batteriesEventually need all mana typesUse mana batteries to make bigger batteries? Why didn’t all the monsters in the spire drop crystals? Mental spell to improve hasteDo not break brain Improve mana threadsDetermine odds Keras will eventually decide to kill me Practice moving different mana typesShould this really be on a checklist?How do I recharge the Jaden Box?I should probably replace the Jaden Box. =( Investigate Selys-Lyann’s runesIs it really cursed? 	How cursed?Like, really super cursed? 	Can I exploit this curse?Bond with Selys-Lyann?Do not break soul Unique attunement functionsDefinitely not actually unique 	How can I fake them?How to make contracts with monsters without a Summoner attunementCan I modify my attunement? Can I make my own attunements?Do not break socio-political system of continentOr maybe doActually yeah definitely do thatCan those unclaimed lands crystals contact Selys directly? Who is the Blackstone Bandit?Why is JinI’m just going to leave that last one openACKNOWLEDGEMENTSFirst off, thanks to some of the people who helped make this book possible.

My literary agent, Paul Lucas, has been a huge champion for the series and helped encourage me to keep working at it. Thanks for all the help, Paul.

Ethan Ishikawa helps run the Discord community for my books, and also helped me work on higher quality versions of the attunement runes than I had for the previous book. Thanks, Ethan!Similarly, Rob McDiarmid made higher quality versions of the runes for individual dominions and magic types. Thanks, Rob!Devin McCarthy helped transform my (terrible) MSPaint and Excel maps for dungeon interiors into presentable artwork. Thanks for the help, Devin!I’d also like to thank the Climber’s Court Discord and Reddit communities as a whole for being amazing and encouraging. Please feel free to join the other readers on Discord and Reddit if you haven’t already!Corin Cadence owes his existence to the “Cobalt Nightmares” role- playing game campaign by Bernard Hansel, Justin Green, Danielle Collins, and numerous other game masters and staff. While the Corin in this novel differs significantly from the character in that game world, playing “Corin Page” is what gave me the first hints of inspiration for this book.

Similarly, Sera Shard/Sera Cadence was inspired by her analogue in Cobalt Nightmares, played by Jess Richards.

As always, my beta readers were essential in improving the quality of this manuscript. My beta readers included Sean Anderson, John Bierce, Ariane Brandt, Luke Chmilenko, Heather Crosthwaite, Yvonne Etzkorn, Ira Ham, Gereon Hinz, Ethan Ishikawa, Jonah L.L., Rob McDiarmid, Ro Noel, Jess Richards, Bruce Rowe, Christine Rowe, Olivia Szachta, Liam Wales, Will Wight, and Brandon Yee.

Much of my inspiration for this work came from web serials such as Mother of Learning by nobody103, Worm by Wildbow, and Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality by Eliezer Yudkowsky.

Another layer of my inspiration came from JRPGs such as Final Fantasy, Tower of Druaga, Azure Dreams, Lufia 2: Rise of the Sinistrals, Ys, and Bravely Default. In specific, the massive towers owe much of their existence to the earlier JRPGs on the list, and the idea of building a magic system around character classes was largely inspired by Bravely Default.

While many earlier JRPGs had “job class” systems, Bravely Default worked character classes into their story — and that’s something I wanted to expand on further.

I’d like to thank the many readers over on my blog for their encouragements and suggestions, especially during the period of time I was debating many title options.

Finally, thanks to the community over on Reddit’s /r/fantasy, for providing constant encouragement throughout the writing process.

SIMILAR WORKSI’m often asked for recommendations for books similar to Sufficiently Advanced Magic.

If you’re looking for another magical school story with a protagonist that does a lot of research into how magic works, I would recommend the web serial Mother of Learning.

If you’re looking for another book with a lot of anime-flavored combat scenes, I’d recommend the Cradle series by Will Wight and the web serial Forge of Destiny.

If you’re looking for more books with strong RPG inspiration, there are a couple up-and-coming genre labels to look for.

“LitRPGs” tend to literally take place in a video game, or in a world that has overt RPG mechanics, such as character classes and levels. Some classic examples include the .Hack series and Dream Park by Larry Niven and Steven Barnes. If you’re looking for one of these, I’d recommend Ascend Online by Luke Chmilenko and the web serial Delve.

There are a number of places to find great LitRPG recommendations.

For example, there’s a large LitRPG Facebook group that can be found here. There is also a LitRPG subreddit, which can be found here.

“GameLit” is a slightly broader genre that includes game inspired fiction in general. Ready Player One by Ernest Cline would be a good example of this.

If you’re looking for an online community for more GameLit recommendations, you may want to look at GameLit Society group. There’s also a more general GameLit group. There’s also a GameLit subreddit, which can be found here.

Finally, we’ve recently come up with a term to describe books like my own — “progression fantasy”. You can find more discussion of this subgenre on /r/progressionfantasy on reddit.

CLOSING NOTES FROM THE AUTHORThanks to everyone who completed this book. I realize it’s been a long wait for some of you, and I hope that you’ve enjoyed the read.

This one was a bit of a departure from the usual style, since it was covering a winter vacation, rather than a large portion of the school year like the previous books. That made it a significant challenge, and I hope the book turned out in a way that my readers find enjoyable.

There are plenty of books still coming in the series. I expect that Book 4 will be more similar to the first two, since Corin will be going back to Lorian Heights for his second year — at least initially.

When I originally started this series, I estimated the scope at six to seven books. This may still hold true, but I suspect it may drift even longer. The important part is that you should know that there’s still plenty more of Corin and the others to come.

If you’re looking for more books in the same universe to read in the meantime, there are two other series to look at with books that are already available.

The War of Broken Mirrors is on Keras’ home continent and earlier in the timeline. This is a completed trilogy with three books. (There may be more books with the surviving characters from this series later, but they’ll probably be considered a new series.)The Weapons & Wielders books begin with the story Keras is telling the others during the train ride. That story focuses on Keras first encountering Dawnbringer and the other Six Sacred Swords.

Finally, there’s a preview chapter of a brand-new story in the same universe just ahead. It’s from the perspective of a character you’ve heard a lot about, but haven’t seen as a narrator yet. If you’re interested, keepreading: I don’t want to spoil the surprise of figuring out the narrator’s identity.

