CHAPTER XXI – DUNGEON DESTRUCTION

Keras walked toward the sign, glancing it over. I’d replaced the sign after the rashan had destroyed it, and it said the same thing as before.

In order to better serve your needs, please state your name, home, and magical abilities, then wait here for further instructions.

“Sounds fake.” Keras muttered. “Super fake.”

Then he kicked it over and walked to the door straight ahead of him.

No, no, no.

I watched in horror as Keras tapped on the door with a finger, causing it to fall off the hinges.

I turned to the crystal. “Seriously? You expect me to stop him?” [No, Corin Cadence. I expect you to try.]I took a moment to panic.

Keras had told me he’d gone through shrines like this one — he’d even described his adventure through a similar one, while he’d been searching for Dawnbringer’s medallions. While Len had mentioned that Keras had visited this shrine, I somehow hadn’t managed to consider the fact that the crystal might use him as one of the challengers for the test. An obvious oversight, in retrospect, as a result of a faulty assumption: I’d assumed that this test would be fair.

I had absolutely no chance in a straight fight against Keras. None. A simulacrum of Meltlake had easily demolished my entire team in the final exams, and Keras was, in my estimation, even more dangerous than Meltlake was. And, of course, Meltlake knew she was running an exam and had obviously held back.

If I fought a copy of Keras here, there was a real chance he could kill me. This was a younger Keras, one that presumably hadn’t even been to Valia. He wouldn’t recognize me. And, based on his own explanation of how he’d first encountered Len, there was a good chance that this copy of Keras didn’t think like Keras — he could be compelled to fight whatever he came across, for example.

I considered just sitting in the crystal room and letting Keras walk through the dungeon. That might have been the sanest course of action. Maybe drop some traps to slow him down, then cash out on my mana stockpile before I failed the test. Assuming I asked the crystal to convert all the mana I’d saved into a mental mana crystal, I had already saved enough to make a Class 5 and accomplish my objective, even without finishing the test. I didn’t know if the crystal would agree to do that, but it was an option.

I wasn’t going to take that option, of course. I wasn’t quite as stubborn as Keras himself, but I didn’t intend to give up without trying.

That left me with a couple options. The safest would be to use the dungeon as designed and try to fill it with traps and monsters to stop him. Knowing what I knew about Keras, I sincerely doubted that would work. If I was able to get some of those higher-level monsters by producing enough small ones, maybe I could slow him down, but I couldn’t even count on that.

And that approach wasted my hard-won mana. I still intended to use that and, well, I’ve always had a problem with sunk costs.

That left the worst possible approach, which was the one I obviously was going to take. “How powerful is this Keras compared to the real one?”

[This copy is considerably weaker than the original Keras who took the test.]“What does considerably weaker mean?”

[Due to the unusual nature of the individual, I am unable to accurately quantify his power. His abilities are significantly restricted; however, you should be advised that this copy’s powers still vastly exceed your own personal abilities.]Yeah, no kidding. I wrung my hands in the air as I watched Keras advance into the next room.

My fire elemental hurled a ball of flame at Keras as he stepped inside. Keras raised a hand and the fireball froze in mid-air. Then he wagged a finger at the fire elemental and gave it a disappointed look. “No. Bad.”

The fire elemental seemed to shrink a little, then lowered itself toward the ground.

Keras shook his head and walked in further, examining the room. The cube of stone that I’d sealed the fire elemental inside for its own protectionwas still near the center, but I couldn’t move the elemental in there now that it was “in combat”. I kind of wished I’d kept it inside.

Keras didn’t attack, though. When he scanned the room, he noted the torches. He blinked. “Oh.” Then, with a flick of his wrist, he sent the hovering fireball straight into one.

Then, with another gesture, he hurled a flame of his own and ignited the other.

There was a click as the door on the opposite side of the room opened. I gawked.

Keras, of all people, had actually solved my puzzle.

I felt a little proud for a moment, almost enough to overcome the feeling of existential horror that came with the knowledge that Keras Selyrian was coming in my direction and it was my responsibility to stop him.

“Were you just trying to help me, little guy?” Keras walked closer and patted the fire elemental on the…well, it didn’t have a head, but on the top of it. “Sorry that I yelled at you earlier. I’m having a bit of a day.”

He shook his head, pulled away from the elemental, and headed toward the next room.

I did not like the idea of fighting Keras Selyrian at all. I definitely did not like the idea of fighting him when he was having a bad day.

…Well, at least my circlet is recharged. As long as he doesn’t fatally injure me, I can probably escape.

I turned to the crystal.

“Clear the monsters out of the other rooms. Put them in the interview room.”

[Done.]I stepped out into the now-empty room just in front of the crystal chamber and prepared myself. I wasn’t waiting long. Keras walked in less than a minute later, after knocking that door off the hinges like he had at the entrance.

He stared across the room toward me. Fortunately, his swords were still sheathed at his side. Then, he said something unexpected. “I wasn’t expecting another wielder here.”

I blinked, processing. “I’m not…oh. You mean Selys-Lyann?” I gestured at the sword at my waist.

Keras walked forward, causing me to tense. If he noted my discomfort, he gave no sign. “Is that what you’re calling it? I can sense a sacred sword from there. Or…a piece of one, anyway. Ah. It’s got a fragment of Flowbreaker in it, I think.”

Mentally, I chastised the actual Keras for not immediately volunteering that same information when we’d met. I don’t know if it would have actually been useful, but it would have been really nice to know a little sooner. “That’s what I’ve heard, but I haven’t seen any other pieces, so I don’t know if it’s true. Similar properties, though. Can you stop walking closer?”

He froze in place, looking mildly surprised, then lifted his open hands. “Ah, sure. Sorry, don’t mean you any harm. Assuming you don’t plan to stop me?”

“I, uh, can’t let you through here. But if you’re looking for the crystal, there’s one over near the entrance…?”

Keras shook his head. “No, the one I’m looking for is in the room behind you.”

“I…” I paused, debating saying something about non-linear rooms and teleporters, but I discarded it. “I can’t let you go through, sorry.”

“Why?” He raised an eyebrow. “My understanding is that more than one person can claim the rewards, and if you’ve already been back there…” “My test is to stop other people from reaching the crystal.” It was agamble, but if this Keras was like the real Keras, then…Keras laughed. “Oh, that’s perfect. Explains a lot, actually. Okay. How are we doing this?”

“Doing…?” My shoulders sank. “You want me to fight you?” “Obviously. What were you expecting?”

I winced. “Could I perhaps interest you in a nice game of Crowns? Or maybe we could decide things over a children’s card game?”

“Amusing, but no. This is a little too important for me to gamble it on things like that. Maybe if you knew the stakes, you’d be willing to just step aside?”

I shook my head. “It…doesn’t actually matter. You’re not getting the reward you’re looking for even if you beat me.”

“Oh? Some other sort of trap or trick? I can beat it, I assure you.”

I felt a pang of sadness when I heard his determination. “There are some battles that can’t be won, regardless of how strong you are.”

Keras gave me a smirk. “Winning impossible battles is kind of what I do. I’m Keras Selyrian.”

I winced. “Actually…about that. No, you’re not.”

He stared at me for a moment. “Okay, that’s the weirdest thing someone has told me in a while. Gonna need you to back up and explain that one.”

“You’re not the real Keras. You’re a copy made by the crystal as a part of my challenge. You can’t win because you’re not competing. If it’s any consolation, I think the real Keras already finished this test.”

He was silent for a long while.

Then, he lifted his hand, staring at it. “Resh. This isn’t the right kind of aura. It’s similar enough that I didn’t notice immediately, but…”

I knew what he was talking about. “…And I’m guessing Dawn has been very quiet?”

“She’s probably sleeping, or…” He frowned, glancing down. “…Or, no.

Not real. She’s not real. I’m not real.”

Something changed in his expression, then. As his head turned back upward, his jaw clenched, and he stared past me.

Then his hand slowly drifted down to the hilt at his left side, and he said, “Get out of my way.”

My heart pounded in my chest as I saw the expression in his eyes, and I felt pressure building in the air. “I can’t do that. I—”

Keras flickered forward.

I reacted as fast as I could, dancing backward, but he wasn’t going for me. He’d reached the other side of the room in an eyeblink, and he was reaching for the door.

“No!” I hurled a blast of transference mana at him from behind. It crashed into him cleanly, but the impact didn’t phase him in the slightest. He did, however, turn back toward me.

“Oh, so we’re doing this after all?” He cracked his knuckles. “Fine with me, kid. But let’s make this quick. I’ve got a stone to break.”

My feeling of panic rapidly escalated. “Keras…I mean, please wait. I know the real Keras. I’m one of his students. I’m his friend.”

His expression didn’t change. “Then you should know my feelings about being copied.”

I…didn’t know a lot about that, to be honest, but I could understand the feeling. “You mean like the copy of Lydia you saved?”

He furrowed his brow. “You know about her?”

I nodded hastily. “She’s still around. Calls herself Len now. She’s the one who brought me here to take this test.”

Slowly, he took a breath, continuing to stare me down. Then, after a moment, he asked simply, “Why?”

“I’m here to get a crystal for Warren Constantine. Something about making defenses for his tower? I think he—”

Keras waved a hand dismissively. “No, not that. Why is she helping you?”

“Admittedly, her motives are pretty inscrutable to me. I’m kind of in the middle of being manipulated by a bunch of powerful beings and what you’d probably call ‘old sages with insufferable riddles’.”

“Not sure I’d use quite that verbiage, but yeah, that does sound about right.” He nodded. He jerked a thumb at the door. “Look, if there’s anything left over after I destroy the crystal that copied me, you can take it.”

“That’s…no. The crystal here is sapient. You don’t kill sapient entities.” He narrowed his eyes. “Keras generally doesn’t kill sapient creatures, true. But as you very accurately pointed out earlier, I’m not the real Keras. And even Keras makes exceptions. Slavers are on that list. Crystals that make copies of people without their consent, then recycle them for deathgames? That’s just a very creative kind of slavery.”

“I…I’m not actually going to argue that, but I’m pretty sure that this particular crystal has already been convinced. Very likely by you, or originally you, in fact.”

He folded his arms. “Then how am I here?” “You probably consented.”

Keras snorted. “Not likely.”

“Well, I saw you examining yourself earlier — you know you don’t have your real annihilation aura. I presume that would be one of your main objections to being copied?”

“It would, but the bigger objection comes from not wanting people tomess with my soul.”

I raised a hand in a gesture of acknowledgement. “Fair, fair. Could I maybe have the crystal talk to you and explain the conditions under whichyou agreed to be copied?”

“Allowing the crystal to access my mind for telepathy could let it influence my decisions. I’m already compromised, but it would be an added risk.”

And I thought I was paranoid. I could have pushed that angle further and stressed that he was already potentially being compelled to be aggressive, but that seemed like a losing argument. “What can I do to convince you that you’re here of your own accord? Or, uh, the accord of the original Keras?”

“Nothing. In fact, you don’t even actually know that definitely, do you?”

I winced. He had a point. “…No?”

“Do you know where the real Keras is?”

“Mm. Sort of. Last I saw he was in the Tiger Spire in Caelford, but I don’t know if he’s still there.”

“Ah.” Keras shook his head. “Inaccessible, then. I’m not going to wait days or weeks to talk this out.”

I didn’t have that kind of time even if he was willing. “Then…all I can do is appeal to your instinct to not kill things, I suppose.”

He looked bemused. “I don’t know how much the other Keras has told you, but even I have limits. And my patience is about to hit one of them.”

I raised both hands. “I could ask the crystal to tell me how you ended up here, and I could relate that to you? No chance of extra mind control that way, you’d just have to trust me.”

His eyes narrowed. “You said you’re one of my students?”

Something about how his eyes burned told me I was not going to like where this was going, but I replied regardless. “Yes…?”

“For what subject?”

I exhaled a breath. “Mostly swordplay.”

“Good.” Suddenly, Dawnbringer was in his right hand. “Show me.”

And then he vanished, in that particular way that Keras does when he’s moving too fast for me to see.

Resh. Haste!I stumbled backward, pulling Selys-Lyann just in time to parry his first swing. Even with Haste on, I barely got my sword up in time, and when ourblades made contact I felt my arm jerk out of position with such force that my shoulder nearly dislocated.

I gave an agonized grunt and barely maintained my grip, the regeneration function of my shield sigil dulling the pain in my arm to an extent that I was able to hold on.

And, in spite of the seemingly successful parry, Keras’ sword was already at my neck.

Then, after a tense moment, he stepped back. “Not a bad effort. Get yourself in a proper stance.”

I trembled for a moment, then took another step back, and lifted Selys- Lyann. I shifted to a side-profile stance, similar to a fencer, and extended my right arm toward him, keeping it almost completely straight. It wasn’t my ideal stance for a saber — it was an exhausting and aggressive way to stand, but there was a particular point to it.

I narrowed my eyes and said, with all the sharpness I could manage, “Selyrian Cutting Style, First Form: Overwhelming Advance.”

Keras blinked. “Really?” I lunged.

Keras batted my first swing to the side immediately, but I’d expected that. I threw my left palm forward, already charged with transference mana. He side-stepped the blast, which was completely unnecessary, but I’d known he’d dodge an unknown projectile attack. He always stepped to his left when dodging an attack in that range, so I was ready for that, too.

Jump.

I shot to his side in a blur, jabbing downward toward his left leg and shoving a burst of transference mana through my hand and into Selys- Lyann. A shockwave of ice ripped from the blade, hitting the ground as Keras danced backward, leaving a patch of frost.

I’d intended to follow up on that by trying to encircle him in ice, but he slammed a boot into the ground. I jumped back just in time to avoid a wall of stone that rose from the ground in front of me, then side-stepped to avoid the crescent wave of light that carved cleanly through the wall.

I took a couple steps backward to make more room and evaluate. That was a mistake.

Keras burst through his own wall a moment later, swinging horizontally the moment he emerged. He was moving too fast for me to dodge, evenwith Haste.

Jump. I flashed to the side, avoiding another crescent wave of brilliant light and sending a wave of frost in his direction. He smashed that with a side-swipe, his sword covered in fire, and then hurled a blast of flame with his other hand.

Blade. I swept my left hand upward, my shroud wrapped around it in the form of a blade of pure mana, and tore the flame in half.

When his expression momentarily flickered in recognition at the sight of the hand-blade, I shot forward in another burst of speed from my ring, swinging down with Selys-Lyann.

He caught my sword in-between two fingers, giving the sword a quizzical look.

“…Please don’t break my artifact?” I pleaded. He seemed to consider that. “Request granted.”

Then his other hand blurred and something slammed into my forehead. My vision went black.

When it cleared, I was on the floor. I blinked rapidly, seeing stars.

Distantly, I was aware that I’d had my shield sigil fully charged when he’d hit me. Now, it was completely drained, and he’d still hit me hard enough that I’d nearly lost consciousness.

I’d just upgraded that thing, and he’d punched through it with a single casual strike.

Something was burning my left eye. It was probably blood, but I couldn’t reach up to wipe it: Keras was standing above me with my own sword resting on the center of my chest.

And ice was beginning to flow up his hand. He glanced downward at it, seemingly unconcerned. The ice stopped spreading, but remained in place. “Unusual. You’re not bonded to this sword yet, but they’re still protecting you.”

The ice melted away entirely, then he flipped the sword over holding it blade-first again. Then he angled it toward my hand. It took me a moment of still-concussed thought to realize he was offering it back to me.

“…If I take that, are you going to hit me again immediately?” “I’ll let you stand up first.”

I groaned, took the sword’s hilt, and pushed myself into a seated position. “Could…I maybe get a five-minute breather?”

“Sure, I’ll come back when I’m done with breaking the crystal.” He turned and headed toward the door.

I was back on my feet a moment later. “Wait, wait.”

Keras spun around, a grin stretched across his face again. “Thought so.

Now, is that all I taught you?”

“You taught me a fair bit, but your forms were built for you. You’re used to using weapons that are unusually light for your level of strength, and you can extend your reach with your aura, using it as a form of area denial and intimidation. I can’t really do the same thing — I don’t have the same capabilities you do. Most of the forms of your style aren’t a good match for me, and that one is honestly one of the worst.”

“Why’d you use it, then?”

I laughed. “Thought seeing it would throw you off.”

“It did,” Keras admitted, “but only for a second. Not enough to close the gap.”

“…Admittedly, Mara is a better close combat student. I’m an Enchanter, you know.”

He blinked. “I have more than one student?”

“You do. Mara is great. You’d like her. I mean, you do like her, obviously, or you wouldn’t be teaching her.”

Keras nodded. “How’d I get into teaching you?” “Mostly a side effect of blackmail from a visage.”

“Ah.” He nodded affably. “Yeah, that checks out.” Then, he lifted Dawnbringer again. “You ready?”

“Not really?” “That’s unfortunate.”

Then he was swinging again, his brilliant blade tracing an arc in the air too fast for me to follow.

…But I didn’t need to.

I’d fought Keras Selyrian hundreds of times. The real Keras Selyrian. And I’d long ago adapted to fighting a stronger and faster Keras.

I can do this.

When his crescent shot forward, I didn’t bother using the ring to jump. Instead, I punched the crescent with a burst of transference mana. I knew his crescents from Dawn were primarily light mana, but they contained enough transference to make a traditional reaction:The crescent hit my fist and flashed, then shot right back toward Keras.

He looked only momentarily startled before catching the gleaming crescent in his own free hand and holding it like a solid object.

My eyes widened briefly. That, at least, was new. “Not bad, kid.”

Then he snapped the crescent between his fingers and flickered forward. Fortunately, I was already moving before he did. His swing passed through the air in front of me, and I countered with the best move I knew totake him off-guard.

Accelerated Computation.

I ripped the circlet off my head. As he stepped backward in confusion, my mind swam.

Distance: 1.8 meters. Mana thread attached. Angle and force required…I hurled my circlet at him. He raised his sword to parry, but with a thought, I jerked downward on the mana threads attached and ripped the circlet out of the way of his movement. There was only a split second of contact with Keras’ sleeve as the circlet moved downward, but with my mind racing, it was enough.

“Return.”

The circlet flashed as the teleportation effect activated……And the circlet clattered harmlessly to the ground.

Keras glanced down at the fallen item, then looked up to me with a quizzical look. “Offensive teleportation?”

“…Yeah.”

“So, I haven’t told you about my boots, then?” “…No?”

He nodded. “Shame.”

Then he punched me in the face, too fast for me to process. I stumbled, but didn’t hit the ground this time. Instead, I simply staggered and reached up to wipe the blood away from my nose, then spat from bleeding gums.

Keras lifted Dawnbringer, resting it against his shoulder. For a moment, he simply watched me as I stepped back and took a defensive stance.

I knew that I couldn’t match him in a straight fight, even with the advantage of knowing his style and anticipating his movements. Not withmy current power. I needed something, anything, that I could use to even the odds.

There was a heartbeat of silence as we both waited for the other to make the next move.

Then, I egregiously cheated.

Pit trap.

The floor dropped out from beneath Keras as the crystal read my intent.

I’d decided against using any of my remaining mana before I started the fight. I had plans for that mana, after all, and I’d been saving it for an important purpose.

Sometimes, the wisest thing someone can do is change their mind.

Couch pile.

A pile of furniture fell on top of the pit, just like it had with the rashan. Unlike with the rashan, however, Keras wasn’t going to have any difficulty escaping.

I’d bought myself seconds at best, and I was going to make every moment count.

And I did that, by doing what I do best — something incredibly, catastrophically foolish.

I closed my eyes and focused on my right hand.

Analyze Attunement Composition.

An image flashed through my mind: stacks of paper sorted into neat piles on a table sitting in perfect darkness.

I already had Accelerated Computation active, so parsing through the pages would be easy. And, given that the organization structure was my own mind, I found what I needed immediately.

I lifted a page in my mind, concentrated on a sub-glyph, and made a single pen-stroke in my mind.

I heard a crack. My eyes opened.

Then, as Keras burst free from the pit, shredding furniture with wild abandon, I sent a pulse of mana into my right hand.

And with a flare of power, my spell was complete: My aura burned bright orange.

I’d overwritten the safety setting on my mana.

Keras glowered at me as he advanced. “I’m not a fan of pits.”

“You’ll be even less fond of what happens next.” I re-formed the mana blade around my left hand, but it was broader now. Brighter.

Sunstone-level boosted my ability to shape my shroud, and I intended to make use of that immediately. I rushed forward, swinging my mana blade before I truly came into reach.

Extend.

The blade lengthened mid-swing, forcing Keras to step backward toward the battered furniture pile. While he avoided stumbling over the broken pieces, I swung Selys-Lyann, sending a shockwave of ice at his feet.

Keras jumped. I’d known he would.

I swung both blades together while he was in mid-air, producing an x- shaped wave of ripping power. He swung downward with Dawnbringer, intending to cleave through the shockwave.

Impact in 0.1 seconds.

With a flick of a finger, I split the shockwave apart the instant before his sword reached it.

The two shockwaves were too close for him to adjust his swing when they split apart. Instead, I saw something flicker across his face, but it wasn’t doubt.

He’d activated a technique.

His aura flashed silver. My attacks vanished into nothing.

When he landed, the stone beneath him shattered, leaving wide cracks across the entire room.

His aura returned to normal in the next instant. Even if his destruction aura wasn’t real, I knew he wouldn’t be willing to overuse it. I swung both blades again, but I knew he’d expect the same trick.

He slammed the ground to raise a wall of stone to block, and I used that moment to prepare my next move.

My right hand trembled on the hilt of my sword.

Deactivating the safety measures on my attunement hadn’t come without cost. I was rapidly burning through my internal mana reserves by using Sunstone-level powers without actually having access to a Sunstone- level mana pool, and my body wouldn’t be able to handle it much longer.

Worse, I still had both Haste and Accelerated Computation active. I was used to using Haste for significant periods of time now, but Accelerated Computation wasn’t meant for extended use.

I need to end this fast.

If I wanted to win, I’d have to end things within the next few moves.

And if I knew Keras, he wasn’t going to make that easy.

I exhaled a breath, then concentrated, dispersing my mana blade.

Instead, I began to form mana threads around my free hand.

All or nothing.

Transference began to flow into my right hand.

One.

Two.

Keras burst through the stone wall before I had a chance to finish my technique, blurring toward me. With my accelerated thoughts, I traced the exact angle and speed of his strike, then gently shifted Selys-Lyann upward to make contact with Dawnbringer.

Then, in the instant of contact, I released the transference mana stored in my hand into my sword.

There was a cacophonous blast as transference mana met with Dawnbringer’s aura, blasting Keras’ arm out of position.

In that instant, I moved.

Jump.

I shot forward, my hand brushing across the hilt of the Sae’kes as I shot past Keras, then I snapped my fingers.

Mana surged through threads toward the blue crystal in the Sae’kes pommel. My heart slammed in my chest.

There was flash of silver.

Then, slowly, the severed remains of my mana threads drifted to the ground. The pulse of mana I’d sent through them dispersed harmlessly into the open air.

He’d cut them so quickly I hadn’t even seen his hand move. And in the heartbeat that followed, I knew that I had failed.

Accelerated Computation was, at times, extraordinarily useful. Without it, I wouldn’t have been able to even attempt my last technique, nor the bit of offensive teleportation with the circlet.

It was, however, extremely disturbing when my racing mind told me that there were two swords approaching me at a speed and trajectory that I could not possibly hope to properly counter.

Dawnbringer smashed into Selys-Lyann hard enough that my fingers instantly went numb, losing their grip. The sword tumbled to the ground, and with it, my best chance to fight.

As my mind raced, I activated my ring, blasting myself backward. Keras followed a heartbeat later, his second sword arcing upward toward my chin.

My arm shot downward. Not to grab his sword — that would have been suicidal. I didn’t have the finesse or strength to grab a sword in between two fingers.

I did, however, have something else. Not a weapon, but one last hope. When Keras’ sword came up for that finishing blow, I tore the JadenBox out of my bag. “Stop!”

Keras shifted mid-swing, his sword’s blade flashing past the side of my head, a fraction of an inch from my ear. Then he jumped back a step, flicking his blade back upward in an instant. He leveled the tip toward my chest, his grip tightening around the hilt of his weapon. “You have Wrynn’s box.”

“I do. And if you don’t step back and lower your sword, I’ll detonateit.”

Keras’ eyes narrowed. “You’re bluffing.”

“Maybe. You saw what I just tried to do with your sword, didn’t you?Mana threads. I can detonate items. You of all people should understand—”

Keras stepped back, lowering his sword. “Fine.” He exhaled a sharp breath. “What do you want?”

“Concede the match. Agree that you won’t attack me or the crystal.

Then, I’ll tell you how I have the box.”

Keras stared at me for a long moment. My hand trembled. My vision swam.

And then, after what felt like an age, he spoke again. Quietly, this time, as if a bit of him was breaking when he uttered the word.

“Fine.”

And after a pause, with a sadder tone, he said, “I concede.” I exhaled hard.

Release Haste. Release Accelerated Computation.

My vision went blank for a moment as my mind snapped out of the effects of the latter spell. In the next moment, the floor was rushing uptoward me, but my motion was forcefully arrested before I hit the ground.

When I managed to gather my thoughts, I realized that Keras had caught me. He helped me into a sitting position, then sat in front of me. His sword was sheathed again. “Looks like you pushed yourself too hard.”

“No kidding. Give me a second.” I closed my eyes again.

Analyze Attunement Composition.

The papers appeared in my mind again, more slowly this time. Parsing through the sub-glyphs was harder without Accelerated Computation, but it was still easy enough to find the one location that I’d made a change: it was effectively highlighted in my mind.

I changed it back.

I shivered as my aura shifted, my body settling back into Carnelian- level. My eyes fluttered back open.

“What was that about?” Keras asked.

“I temporarily gave myself a higher attunement level to fight you. I just changed it back to avoid causing myself too much permanent damage.”

Keras laughed. “Nice trick. Wish I could do something like that.” “Don’t you have those body techniques?”

He shrugged. “Those have pretty serious downsides…but I can see what you’re getting at.”

I frowned. “…Why didn’t you use them against me?”

He blinked, as if surprised by the question. “Did you think that I needed them?”

“…Oh.”

Keras laughed. “Relax, kid. You did great. How old are you, anyway?” “Seventeen.”

“Seventeen…” Keras shook his head, briefly looking wistful. “Gods, I wasn’t anywhere close to your level at seventeen. You’re going to be one of the best when you’re older.”

“…You think so?”

“Take it from an expert. You’ve got real skill there. Just…maybe don’t do too many things to permanently damage yourself, yeah? That can get you into trouble.”

I sighed. “I’ll take that under advisement.”

He reached into a bag at his side, producing what appeared to be an ordinary flask of water. He took a drink, then offered the flask to me. “It’sreal, I think.”

I grinned. “I’ve got my own water. In the box, actually.”

“In the box.” Keras gave the Jaden Box a wistful look, then turned toward me. “This a good time to explain?”

“…Sure.” I took a breath. “How much time do you have?”

***I sat with the copy of Keras for close to a half hour, telling him stories. How I’d gotten the Jaden Box, how I’d met him, how he’d told me about bits of his own adventures…And that he still, apparently, was looking for Wrynn.

“How long has it been, do you think? Between when this,” he pointed at himself, “was created, and the present?”

“Somewhere around a decade, probably. Do you know what year it was on the Valian calendar when you showed up here?”

He shook his head. “Haven’t been to Valia yet or learned their calendar system. 746 on the Edrian Calendar, though?”

“Don’t know that one, sorry.” I shook my head. “I’m…not a very good student.”

“On the contrary, I saw your sword forms. You used several of my techniques — blade shaping, splitting the crescents, even one of my stances. I’d say you’re an excellent student.”

“…Thanks.” I didn’t know what else to say.

“So. You think the original Keras is going to use that box to summon Wrynn?” Keras asked.

I nodded. “Yeah. And if I finish this whole thing with Constantine, Len might be able to teach me how to recharge the box faster. So, in a sense, succeeding here might help you…or, other you, see Wrynn sooner.”

“I suppose that makes things a little more worth it, then.” Keras turned his head upward. “I want you to ask that crystal that question for me.”

I nodded. “I think I know the one.”

Why did Keras consent to have a copy of him made?[Because I offered to let him fight himself whenever he wants.] I burst out laughing.

Keras gave me a quizzical look. “Is that bad?” “No…it’s just…very you.”

I paused, took a breath, and then explained.

Keras closed his eyes, then gave a long-suffering sigh. “…I really do have a one-track mind, don’t I?”

“It could be worse.” I told him.

“I suppose it could.” He nodded, more to himself then to me. “Hey, kid.

What’s your name?”

“It’s Corin. Corin Cadence.”

Keras nodded slowly. “Corin Cadence. That’s a good name. One last thing. What happens to me after I walk out that door?”

“Your memories will be wiped, but you won’t be destroyed.” “Memories wiped, eh?” He shook his head. “That’s a shame.” I frowned. “Why is that?”

“Because,” Keras turned and walked toward the shrine’s entrance, reaching over his head to give me a casual wave, “You might be my student, but you still taught me a thing or two.”

