CHAPTER XX – DUNGEON DEFENSE

I panicked, of course.

That panic took the form of a loud exclamation and a dead sprint back to the crystal chamber. I very nearly fell in one of my own (still-existent) pits along the way.

By the time I got to the crystal room, there wasn’t much time left. I hoped it would just be another friendly adventurer entering, willing to sit through my ludicrous interview and happily accept their fictitious reward.

Obviously, my good friend the Transference Gateway Crystal had other plans. No adventurers appeared after the minute was up: instead, the entrance was graced by the coming of an eight-legged feline creature the size of a horse. It was black furred, so I might have called it a panther if it had, you know, fewer legs and less glowy eyes.

[Warning: The shrine has been invaded by one of the Buried. Learning protocols suspended. Updated objective: Remove the threat by any means necessary.]I blinked. “The Buried…? Aren’t those some kind of ancient monsters?”

I’d heard a tiny bit about the Buried from Keras, but I wasn’t anything like an expert on the subject, and more information could be critical.

[That is an oversimplification, but yes. The Buried were created by the makers of the world as soldiers in a divine war that nearly obliterated the planet. In the aftermath of the war, the survivors were sealed beneath the surface of the world by the surviving gods, who feared them.]“Oh, good. Monsters that gods were afraid of. Fun.” [I sense that you are being facetious.]“Yep.” I exhaled a breath. “How does that have anything to do with the rest of this test?”

[While teaching the living is of the utmost importance, actual Buried attacks have threatened the homes of the crystals on numerous occasions. Designing proper defenses for a Buried incursion is an integral part of proper crystal sanctuary design, regardless of the shrine’s primary purposes.]“Okay, great.” I groaned. “If teaching isn’t the goal here, replace the doors with walls.”

While we talked, the panther-like Buried advanced, stopping briefly in front of the sign. I couldn’t tell if they were reading it or not.

...I suppose if they can talk, I could interview—The panther casually swept a claw through the air. A heartbeat later, the sign fell into six separate pieces.

…Or not.

I heard the crystal’s response to my request a moment later. [Unfortunately, a clear line to the entrance is a required part of the sanctuary’s design. Removing the doors, even temporarily, is prohibited.]“Why? That doesn’t make any…”

The panther leapt forward, crashing through the door straight ahead of and landing in a pile of splintered wood. It had been locked, but that didn’t accomplish much.

The panther now stood in my original entrance room, the one with a fire elemental and the torch lighting puzzle.

I couldn’t keep complaining. Combat had begun.

As I watched, the tiny fire elemental hurled a bolt of flame at the panther. The panther leapt to the side, avoiding the lick of flame, then swiped a claw in mid-air. There was a flash, then the fire-elemental fell backward, large gashes appearing across the flame’s surface. The elemental wasn’t killed outright in one strike, but from the way it listed toward the ground, it didn’t look like it could take much more punishment.

“Telepathically tell the panther to stop fighting, and that I will be there to talk shortly.”

[Done. Also, they are called a rashan.]The rashan paused for just a moment, turning their head upward. Then, with a growl, they leapt at the injured fire elemental.

I cursed and broke into a run.

Well, I tried.

Mentally, I assessed my chances in a fight against the rashan. From the speed they were moving and the damage they could deal at a distance, I didn’t like my odds. I didn’t know much about the Buried, but Keras had told me that they were created to fight against ancient deities. A conjuredcopy for a test was unlikely to have the same level of power as a real Buried, but it would still be dangerous.

The safe thing to do would have been to hole up and burn through more mana on reinforcing the chamber right in front of the crystal. But, in spite of my typical habits, I wasn’t going to play this one safe.

If I didn’t do something soon, that little fire elemental was going to get mauled to pieces.

Haste.

I ran faster, bursting through the first room in moments. Fortunately, the crystal must have anticipated my intent without clear instructions, since the door unlocked right in front of me.

I planned in the few moments while I ran.

My shield sigil was still barely functional, having only recovered a fraction of its power. I sent a pulse of my own mana into it as I ran, but I doubted it would do much. In a fair fight, this thing was going to tear me to pieces.

But I had no intention of fighting fair.

I rushed through the next room, two fire elementals still spinning in the air to guard it.

Move the fire elemental out of the rashan room.

[I cannot move entities while they are engaged in combat.] I cursed and ran faster. Wall them off, then.

I heard a loud crunch followed by a feline roar.

[The fire elemental has been surrounded by walls. You have 880 mana remaining.]Good. Get the fire elementals out of this room and put them right in front of the crystal chamber.

The fire elementals near me vanished.

I reached the door to the next room a few moments later, swinging the door open to find the rashan standing right in front of it. I saw the creature’s legs shift just slightly, preparing to leap.

“…Down, kitty?” The rashan jumped.

I did, too, but with cheating.

Jump.

My ring of jumping, so underutilized of late, blasted me out of the rashan’s path. I landed near the treasure box, which still sat in the center of the room. I drew my sword and held it in a defensive stance. “Stop. There’s no need for us to fight.”

Detect Aura.

The rashan had no visible shroud, which was unsurprising. They weren’t a creature of Selys’ creation: The Buried were older. But the spell had other uses.

The rashan lowered their head and growled, then replied in a guttural tone, “I disagree.”

A casual swipe of their paw sent a near-invisible wave of force across the room, but I was ready for it. I’d seen how they had clawed through the sign and hit the elemental without touching them. I didn’t jump again: I didn’t need to. With Detect Aura and Haste active, I could see the gleam of phantasmal claws passing through the air and simply side-stepped the attack.

I wasn’t surprised the rashan could understand me: there was probably some sort of translation spell running throughout the whole place, otherwise I wouldn’t have been able to understand Roy, either. He predated the coming of Valia to this continent, and thus, he would have been speaking an unfamiliar language.

I was a little more surprised the rashan could reply in a form I could understand, but not overly so. There wasn’t exactly a lot of time to chat. They were already preparing for another leap before I could get in a word.

Need to buy time.

When the rashan leapt, I swung Selys-Lyann upward in an arc, sending a glittering crescent of frost through the air.

The rashan twisted in mid-air, avoiding the attack and smashing into the ground where I would have been standing if I hadn’t already been dancing backward, swinging again.

The rashan leapt again. A flick of my wrist sent a burst of near-invisible transference mana to slam them right out of the air. When they landed, I sent another mental instruction.

Walls around the rashan, now.

[I cannot create walls around enemy entities.]I cursed as the rashan surged forward at blinding speed. I tried to move out of the way, but even with Haste active, this thing was fast. They slammed right into me, sending me crashing into the back wall of the chamber. My fractionally charged shield sigil prevented the rashan’s impact from doing me any harm, but I felt the shield shatter the moment I hit the wall. My vision swam and I found myself on the floor, blearily processing the rashan, already in mid-air as they jumped toward me.

I rolled, barely managing to get out of the way before the rashan landed with a colossal thump.

I wasn’t in a good position to swing, and I didn’t even know if the rashan would give me a chance to get back to my feet. I did have a faster way of responding, though. One that didn’t require any movement.

Pit under it, now.

The floor beneath the rashan dropped away in an instant. The rashan tumbled downward, claws scouring the walls to slow their descent. Apparently, gigantic monster cats weren’t quite as immune to the trauma of falling as small ones.

The fall didn’t last long, but I was sending more commands with the speed of thought.

An instant later, a few tons of furniture dropped on top of the pit, sealing the top shut.

I heard a loud growl as the rashan leapt up the walls and slammed into one of the couches I’d commanded the crystal to drop in place, but the furniture barely budged.

I groaned, pushing myself to my feet. Then I walked to the side of the pit, careful to stay far enough back to avoid being suddenly eviscerated if the rashan had some way to get out, like an incorporeal form or teleportation. “Ready to talk now?”

I heard another growl, then a rip as claws ripped through one of the pieces of my furniture stack.

[Your pit cost 25 mana. Your “pile of couches” cost 300 mana. You have 555 mana remaining.]“Tell you what, I’m going to go ahead and start flooding the pit with water. After that, I’ll freeze it solid. I’m pretty confident I can do that before you can dislodge all this. If you—”

Another crash as the rashan hit the furniture pile, but it still didn’t budge. The rashan was tremendously strong, but they weren’t in a great position to try to shift the stuff.

“You are bluffing.”

I shrugged a shoulder, which was probably unnecessary, since presumably the rashan couldn’t see me. “Add and activate a flood trap near the pit.”

I spoke out loud deliberately, intending to demonstrate my control over the terrain. The “flood trap” turned out to be a little different from what I pictured: a spout appeared on the ceiling above the trap, then began to rapidly spray water into the room. The spout was huge — a few feet in diameter, not just a tiny leak like I was expecting.

The torrent of water was significant enough that I had to stand back to avoid getting splashed. The furniture was blocking the hole enough to prevent the rashan from escaping, but it wasn’t by any means water tight. The hole began rapidly flooding, like I’d claimed.

Uh…huh. Okay.

I went through a moment of panic. I had, in fact, been bluffing. The trap was much more effective than I expected.

Fortunately, the rashan was panicking even more than I was. I heard them slam into the walls faster. Moments passed, then came another growl, and finally, “You cannot hold me here, human. I will escape. I will always escape.”

It occurred to me a little late that imprisoning something in a pit that had presumably been imprisoned underground for millennia was a little bit more, uh, thematic than I had intended. Still, I wasn’t dealing with anger at my audacity. That formidable monster inside the pit was afraid. And while I wasn’t big on exploiting negative emotions, they had been very definitely planning to kill me, so I had fewer reservations than I usually did.

Now that the Buried was in a vulnerable position, there was a significant chance I could have simply found a way to turn that trap deadlier. Selys-Lyann might have frozen the water in a way that would prove fatal, or perhaps I could have simply layered further monsters and traps in ways that could finish the fight without any further intervention on my behalf. I’d been permitted to simply “remove” the monster here, after all.

But I’d decided I wasn’t going to handle this scenario like a traditional dungeon-crafting being, and I certainly wasn’t going to give up after the first small dent in that plan.

“You want to escape, and I want to help you do that. We can make a deal.”

I heard another slam from below. “I do not deal with the enemies of Aetor.”

I had precisely zero idea who Aetor was, but I could still play along. “Even if that deal would work to Aetor’s benefit?” There was a pause, so I added, “And it’s not like you’re any use to Aetor dead.”

“I will not die here!” Another loud slam. The furniture pile actually moved that time, enough that I was startled.

So, mentally, I dropped another sofa on the pile. There was a loud crash as it manifested place, then an alarming groan from the bottom of the pile. Not from the monster, but from the bottom-most sofa, which was seriously damaged. “Uh…You’re going to want to stop being stubborn, because that stuff is about to collapse on top of you, and I’m not sure if I’ll be able to dig you out if that happens.”

Another pause, then… “Speak quickly, human.” “Simple. I presume you’re here to seek the crystal?”

A growl. “Of course. The power of the crystal will assist me in my revenge.”

“I’ll help you. I’ll get you out of the pit and escort you to the crystal without any further complications. All I need is…” A plausible plan, one the Buried might agree to. “Your assistance against a mutual enemy.”

“A mutual enemy?” There was a derisive snort. “Your entire species is my enemy. So, unless you speak of one of your petty kings…”

“No.” A plan clicked into place in my mind. “The Sun Eater.” I said, definitively. “I want you and your people to join us against the Sun Eater.”

“…The Sun Eater? You speak nonsense. The Sun Eater is long defeated.”

I heard a hiss as the water continued to climb higher. “Not as defeated as we hoped. As much as you might hate humanity, I’m sure you can agree that the destruction of the planet would be bad for us both. We live here, after all. Now, I’d like to let you out before you drown down there. Will you agree to a truce?”

“If you speak true, then…” A loud growl. “Fine, fine! Just get me out of here!”

A grin slid across my face.

Shut off the flood trap.

The trap stopped immediately. I felt a surge of relief. I wasn’t sure if that would work: I hadn’t asked earlier if I could deactivate the traps.

Now, the harder part: I couldn’t move several tons of furniture by myself, either. Not easily, anyway.

Can you move the furniture?[No. The furniture is presently being used and cannot be moved.]I groaned. Okay, fine. Create two lesser wood golems and have them lug the furniture out of the way.

Two human-sized wooden statues appeared next to me, then immediately got to work, starting from the top of the pile.

[You spent 50 mana on the additional couch, then 100 on the golems.

You have 405 mana remaining.]The golems weren’t as strong as I hoped, but gradually, they managed to move the colossal pile of furniture enough that the rashan was able to burst through the bottom couch and emerge from the pit.

The rashan glared at me with narrowed eyes, then shook themself off, splattering water across the room. “Lead me to the crystal, human. Before I change my mind.”

“Of course.” I nodded. Then, of course, I led the way straight to the fake crystal room near the entrance.

The rashan approached the fake crystal, sniffing the air. For a moment, I thought they might have sensed my deception. They lowered their head, and for a moment, I expected them to leap toward it.

It was only belatedly that I realized that this was not a gesture of aggression, but of reverence.

“Great watcher, power of old, grant me a fraction of your strength.”

That was promising. Except, of course, that I didn’t have enough mana remaining to grant the rashan a mark.

Can you, uh, tell the rashan that it needs to spend a half hour in ritual silence while it awaits your mark?[Amusing. Very well.]The rashan turned their head to me. “Leave us, human. I must undergo the ritual to receive the mark. Mhen I am marked, I will consider our pact sealed.”

I nodded, then left the room.

Then, of course, I rushed to the real crystal room to wait. I rested for about twenty-five minutes, then used most of the remaining time to drain the portion of my mana batteries that had recharged.

[I now have 925 mana available. 1000 mana is required to mark the rashan.]I sighed, then drained some of the recharged mana from my shield sigil and circlet into the crystal as well.

[I now have 1200 mana available. Shall I perform the mark?] “Go ahead.”

There was a flash as a glowing mark appeared on the rashan’s front paw. They let out a surprisingly wolf-like howl into the air, then pushed out of the room.

I met the rashan near the entrance. “I have delivered on my side of the bargain. Will you honor yours?”

“Your people are the ones without honor. My pact was spoken, it will be fulfilled. Tell me of the return of the Sun Eater.”

I’d had a bit of time to think about how to spin this. “One of the generals of the Sun Eater, Akadi, has been sighted in the human lands to the south.”

“I know of this one. A stealer of bodies and harbinger of the Sun Eater’s coming.”

I nodded. “If Akadi is here, there may be others. To fulfill our bargain, you may either destroy Akadi or discover another general and relay the general’s name and location to me. I will remain here and await your return.”

“Me have an accord.” The rashan lowered their head, then spun and rushed straight out the shrine’s door.

I stared after the monster, my heart still pounding in my chest. For several moments, I braced myself for the creature to come back and rend me to bits. Slowly, I backed away from the entrance, lowering my sword only with great hesitation.

[Congratulations. It has been years since someone has succeeded at this portion of the test.]I turned my head toward the crystal room. “Most people can’t defeat the rashan, then?”

[No. Most people kill the rashan and fail the test.]“…What?	You	told	me	to	eliminate	the	rashan	by	any	means necessary!”

[That is correct. I did not, however, state that you would pass the test if you chose a lethal approach.]I sighed and headed back to the crystal room, sheathing my sword along the way. “I feel like you were being a little deceptive, then.”

[Yes, of course. Exposure to dishonesty is one way to learn about the nuances of communication, after all.]I rubbed my forehead. “Was that the end of this, then? Am I done?” [Not by any stretch of the imagination. You do, however, have a fullhour before the next test.]“Care to give me a bit more warning about what the next phase will entail?”

[Not particularly.]I sighed, sat down on the floor of the crystal’s room, and got to work.

***The next hour was fairly simple. I had the golems shift the furniture into a makeshift maze, slowing the path through that particular room, with the pit trap in the center of the path and still filled with water. It wasn’t much of a threat to anyone, but it would serve to slow down any other monsters that tried to simply charge through the place.

I earned a thousand mana from finishing the round with the rashan. I knew I would be able to get close to another thousand out of the batteries, too. More if I was willing to drain my shield sigil and circlet again, but I wasn’t. I didn’t want to risk getting into another fight without my defenses in place. I didn’t know how deadly that rashan would have been if I hadn’t trapped it, and I didn’t want to go up against something similar or stronger without proper preparations.

With over two thousand mana to spend, I could have done a lot of experimenting.

It was tempting to create extra defenses. The challenges would probably get harder, after all, and I knew that I would “unlock” additional types of potential creation if I made enough of any one specific type of creature or trap. I didn’t know the thresholds for that, but with two thousand mana, I suspected it was likely I had enough that I could probably get better elementals, wood golems, or pit traps if I focused on them.

But none of those traps and monsters were my main methods of resolving the recent entrants. I had, in spite of my best intentions, been handling a great deal of the work myself.

And while that did have significant downsides, it did have one principal advantage: I was conserving mana. That mana was primarily intended to be used as a tool for resolving future challenges, but that didn’t mean it was the only way the mana could be used.

With an hour to burn, I sat down with the crystal to talk. “Tell me about how exactly you’ve been putting those glowing marks on people.”

[Why do you ask?]“Because I want to learn how to do it myself.”

There was a pause. [Acceptable. Let our lessons begin.]***At the end of the hour, I still had over 2000 mana — 2050, to be specific, since I didn’t quite wait the full hour to drain the batteries. The only action I’d taken in regards to the dungeon structure was to move the fire elemental that I’d walled off out of the walls. I’d asked if the crystal could heal the elemental, or if I could, but the crystal explained that it would automatically recover to full strength between rounds.

While I hadn’t done much with the dungeon, that hour had been extremely productive. Why?Because one hour of that crystal’s time was more than enough for me to understand the crystal’s process for making a glowing, otherwise functionless mark.

The foundation was remarkably simple: it required creating a six-part enchantment inside another entity’s body, all within the bounds of a single glyph.

This contained the same basic structures as a standard enchantment: the enchantment’s function (meaning glowing), recharge, and capacity components. The other parts were also mostly straightforward: a function toprevent the mana from escaping into other parts of the body and a function to avoid the body rejecting the foreign mana. Interestingly, there was no purification function involved: this was because the crystal’s mana was already purified and safe for humans, like my own.

The sixth and most important function was a connection to the crystal itself. This connection was apparently a prerequisite for the mark’s ability to recharge, which drew from some kind of external source connected to the crystal, rather than the environment. When I asked the crystal if this external source was a dominion, they told me that was “valuable information” that would require a boon to discuss further.

That was fascinating.

The most important part, however, was how this process was performed. There was no attunement primer involved, no applicator. The crystal simply had a single, self-contained function that could apply these marks to people.

And if I could figure out how to replicate that…My mind swam with the possibilities. But I couldn’t get too excited: the crystal wouldn’t explain how it was embedding that many functions into a single enchantment, or even how the enchantment was structured. It wasn’t quite the same as an attunement, with sub-glyphs and all that.

If I wanted to know more, I’d have to spend a boon. A boon that was, unfortunately, already reserved for a completely different purpose.

That’s not to say the information was without value.

With that knowledge, I understood the actions the crystal had been taking, and I had room to discuss adjustments. “When you’re applying a mark, do you need to include all those component parts?”

[Not technically, but it will not be fully functional without them.] “…Okay. What if you made one without the connection to you, or theability to recharge?” I considered asking the crystal to remove the capacity and anti-leaking functions as well, but that seemed a bit extreme.

[That would reduce the cost from 1000 mana to 700 mana, but the mark would cease to function after about an hour.]“Would that reduce the value of the reward in terms of my own rewards at the end of a round?”

I felt something that sounded like the telepathic equivalent of a sigh. [… Technically, no, as long as they leave the dungeon within that hour.]I grinned. “Perfect.”

With that, it was almost time for the next round, and my plans were firmly in place.

***The next five hours passed in a blur. Every entrant was a single, ordinary human. Every single one of them subjected themselves to my strange, baffling interview process.

And every single one them was rewarded with a gift from the fake crystal.

In four cases, this was a mark. The fifth just wanted the crystal to answer some kind of esoteric question, which didn’t cost me anything, but I was a little disappointed that they had the conversation telepathically and the crystal wouldn’t tell me what it was about.

Either way, I cleared each round, and each had a one hour wait afterward.

From clearing each round, I earned a total of four thousand mana. That was heavily offset somewhat by the cost of four fake marks, for twenty- eight hundred mana, netting twelve hundred.

But those five hours were an additional five hours of recharge time for my batteries, too. That amounted to a total of another 6100 mana.

All told, I had 9350 mana at that point.

Almost enough. If I have over twenty hours to go, I should get what I need long before that. Then I can experiment with some other ideas. I’ll start by upgrading treasure…maybe I can get to the point where the crystal will make magical items I can take out of here.

[I regret to inform you that you do not, in fact, have over twenty hours remaining.]I blinked. I hadn’t heard the crystal responding directly to my stream of thought in a while. “Oh? How much longer do I have?”

[One round.]“What? That’s…why? Isn’t this supposed to take up to thirty hours?” [Up to, yes. But I have already neared the completion of my evaluation.] “…Could I…uh, request a little more time?”

[You could, but I would not grant it.]I sighed. “Right. Okay. One more round. Can I still use any mana I’ve saved up after the round is completed?”

[I would permit that, but I would not advise it. I have decided you require a greater challenge.]I processed that. “…Thanks?”

[Your final challenger will now enter the sanctuary.]I looked at the display next to the crystal, feeling a foreboding sensation as I watched an almost-familiar figure step through the door.

The black-haired swordsman was wearing a strange tunic that seemed to drink in the chamber’s light. Over that, he wore a long, black coat. While his outfit was eye-catching, it was ultimately far less important than the two swords he wore on his hip. On his left side, he wore a long-bladed weapon with a silvery hilt in a scabbard that nearly dragged against the floor. On his right hip, the unmistakable brightness of gold that I had seen only in replica form.

That sword was Dawnbringer, the Sacred Sword of Light.

And my intruder was, of course, a copy of a younger Keras Selyrian. And I was reshing doomed.

