CHAPTER IV – THREE WAYS TO SURVIVE

Goblins. Some of the most basic of monster — tiny green- skinned humanoids with rudimentary weapons.

There were four of them behind the first wall, two carrying clubs and two with rusted shortswords. One had something like a sling on their belt, but I didn’t think they’d get a chance to use it at this close of range.

Minimal threats. I could probably preserve my mana by fighting them sword-to-sword, my shrouds should—A blast of lightning from my left side smashed into the first one, then jumped to each goblin in succession. All four goblins collapsed into smoldering remnants to the cheers of the crowd.

I gave Patrick a raised eyebrow. “Overkill much?” “Sorry!” He laughed. “I’m a little nervous.”

I shook my head and smiled. “Could be a worse reaction to nervousness than winning too quickly.” I turned as the second wall slid downward, bracing myself for something a little tougher.

On the plus side, there were only two figures this time.

Of course, nothing could ever be simple, so those two figures were eight-foot tall skeletal knights in full plate armor.

What are those supposed to be, undead ogres?I didn’t have a chance to speculate further — the skeletons marched forward as soon as the wall fell, one moving to meet each of us.

The one facing me was armed with a halberd, which is basically a long pole with an axe blade. The other was carrying a classic sword and shield.

As Patrick hurled his initial volley of lightning, his opponent simply raised their shield, the electricity hitting the metal and…vanishing, rather than traveling through it.

Enchantments?I didn’t see any, but maybe they were hidden. I didn’t have a chance to look closely — a moment later, I was jumping to the side to avoid being cleaved in half by a halberd half-again my height.

I swung Selys-Lyann and sent a wave of frost at the skeleton. That hit the halberd and began to spread, but the skeleton simply slammed the halberd into the ground, shattering the ice.

…Not good.

Ice wasn’t effective against skeletons in the best of circumstances — and these were apparently smart enough to sense the risks of the spreading frost.

I parried another lunge, then hurled a blast of transference with my off-hand, but that barely staggered the skeleton — it was just too heavy.

Patrick wasn’t faring much better. He tried hurling a blast of fire, but the skeleton blocked that just as easily, then countered with a sword swing. Patrick parried with Bright Reflection, but the skeleton was much stronger than he was— the resulting sword press hurled Patrick backward so hard that he nearly slammed into the barrier at the back of the arena.

I barely dodged the next lunge, the halberd flashing by my face closely enough to nick my barriers and leave a crack.

I danced back and swung at the ground, leaving a trail of frost as the skeleton tried to close the distance. The skeleton simply side-stepped the patch of ice, raising their halberd for another swing.

“Switch!” I called to Patrick.

Jump.

I burst out of the way of the next halberd swing, surging toward the sword-and-shield skeleton and ducking under the surprised slash at my head. I swung at the ground again as I moved, but not toward the skeleton.

Closing the distance was much easier against a target using a weapon with a length more similar to my own sword. The sword-and-shield skeleton still had a reach advantage, but it wasn’t nearly as overwhelming — especially because their normal-sized kite shield wasn’t large enough to provide them with coverage for their legs.

…Which meant that when I slid right beneath their legs on the patch of ice I’d created, it was easy enough to slash the back of their knee, one of the few parts that wasn’t as heavily armored.

Ice surged across the skeleton’s leg. They stumbled as they turned to face me again, but they were too slow.

I slammed my other hand into the frozen leg with a surge of transference mana. Bone splintered as the skeleton fell.

I still had to jump backward as the skeleton took a swing while falling, but then they were on the ground.

I raised my sword as the skeleton fumbled to stand, preparing for a parting swing…But as the skeleton struggled, I sensed the intelligence in those strange blue flames in the sockets and stayed my hand. Instead, I raised my sword. “Yield.”

The skeleton paused as they attempted to rise…then looked at somewhere distant…and lowered their head.

“I am beaten, honorable one.” The first skeleton vanished.

…And mentally I cursed as their sword and shield vanished along with them. I’d wanted to reverse engineer that shield.

No time for that, anyway.

I swung toward Patrick to find him still on the retreat from the halberd-wielder, Bright Reflection shining brightly in his hand. But while ice wasn’t ideal against the undead, Bright Reflection was a replica of Dawnbringer, the Sacred Sword of Light.

When the skeleton lunged next, a burst of air sent Patrick upward, then he pointed his sword straight at the skeleton’sexposed face. A torso-wide blast of brilliant light flashed out of the sword, encompassing the entire top of the skeleton’s body.

When the light faded, only sizzling air was left inside the armor as it collapsed to the ground.

The armor vanished a moment later.

I gave Patrick a nod. He floated back to the ground, raising Bright Reflection again. The blade looked a bit dimmer — he’d spent a considerable chunk of the weapon’s mana on that attack.

We’ll need to work on more upgrades for the sword soon.

But for now…The third wall came down. My grip on Selys-Lyann tightened.

…And I found myself face-to-face with a gigantic slime, nearly as tall as the arena walls.

Really? Just a big slime, after that? That’s—I barely managed to hurl myself to the side, my eyes widening, as a spike-like tendril of goo shot across the stage. I heard a gasp from the audience as I countered with a swing from Selys-Lyann, drawing the weapon and swinging for the strange gelatinous appendage, but the slime retracted the spike too quickly.

Patrick hurled another blast of lightning, which hit the slime dead-on…but not to the result we were hoping for.

The slime jiggled in place, then shifted in color to a yellow-orange. Then, as it steadied, a flashing voltaic aura appeared around it.

…What.

A moment later, Patrick and I were leaping to the side as the slime hurled blasts of lightning at us.

I danced around three more blasts of lightning, while Patrick switched to reshaping them in mid-air and hurling them backward at the slime. Each of the redirected bolts hit, but the slime just seemed to absorb them.

That’s…not good.

The slime jiggled forward menacingly.

I’d seen slimes do some tricky stuff, like splitting into pieces, but this…this was a little extreme. They weren’t even supposed to be intelligent!I couldn’t pause long enough to analyze or complain.

Need to hit it with a different element if it’s absorbing lightning.

I swung Selys-Lyann in place and sent a burst of transference into the blade, pushing on the icy aura and projecting a cutting wave of frost. Ice wasn’t the perfect counter to lightning, but if I was guessing right, it would be different enough to at least cause some damage.

A huge section of the slime reshaped itself as the crescent approached…into a gigantic jiggling shield. The ice impacted the shield, freezing a section and turning it blue.

…Which the slime quickly cut off with a scythe-like appendage formed from another section of the chest.

I gawked.

The audience oohed. Patrick hit it with a fireball.

Chunks of slime splattered across the stage…then began to crawl back toward the large central slime that remained just where it had been standing.

Okay, nope.

Haste. Jump.

I flashed across the stage, striking several of the bits of slime and freezing them before they could return to the main body. As I drew closer to the central mass, the slime shifted toward me, lurching forward and reshaping its top into a gigantic hammer.

I jumped backward as it slammed into the ground, then raised my arms defensively as Patrick blasted it with another fireball. Bits of slime splattered across my layered barriers harmlessly, but they weren’t the only thing that hit me. A hail of slimy needles, each gleaming with electrical energy, hit my barriers as I retreated. I swept some of themout of the air with Selys-Lyann, but a few got through to impact my barriers, making cracks.

“We need to hit the core!” Patrick shouted.

I hadn’t even seen a core, but Patrick was right — if I looked carefully, there was a tiny section in the slime’s midsection that was darker than the rest. A power source.

Unusual, for a summoned monster, but not unheard of. I knew that such things could let a summon work independently for a longer period of time — or possibly make them stronger than they would be otherwise.

“I’ll make an opening!”

I jumped back to avoid another hail of slime needles, then concentrated on my left hand.

One.

Two.

Three…The slime lunged at me with a lance-like arm. I ducked and swept Selys-Lyann upward, pushing the arm, then stepped in close.

Four… Five!I slammed my left fist into the slime’s center, releasing a burst of transference mana. A huge chunk of the slime exploded backward, creating a gigantic hole — and exposing the gleaming green core crystal.

A gigantic spear of lightning smashed straight through the core the moment it was exposed. The core collapsed…And the slime collapsed right along with it. Right above me.

Jump!I barely managed to blast myself backward before the ton of goop collapsed on top of me.

The audience burst into applause, but I barely had time to clean a few errant bits of goop off my boots — my shroud didn’t stop me from stepping on slime — before the next wall fell.

Three colossal tigers with iron-colored hides growled at us, revealing jagged metallic fangs.

Ferrous tigers were a classic Tiger Spire monster — it was likely that they’d been contracted by a Summoner who had visited that location. They were best known for their razor- sharp claws and fangs, and, as I remembered with a groan, one particularly annoying property—My sword yanked toward them the moment the wall came down. Patrick let out an “eep” as the same thing happened to Bright Reflection.

Magnetism. Their hide was powerfully magnetic, as well as near-invulnerable to conventional metal weapons. That made them a serious threat to traditional sword fighters—But I’d fought against someone with far stronger magnetism, and I’d figured out more than a few tricks to try to counter it.

I slammed Selys-Lyann into the ground, cutting straight into the stage and freezing the sword in place. I left a mana string connecting the sword to my fingers. Then, I dodged a lunge from the first tiger and reached into my bag.

“Retrieve: Mr. Stabbington.”

My newest sword appeared in my right hand before the tiger could close in. As I’d expected, I didn’t feel even the slightest pull on the blade — the magnetic hide of the ferrous tigers was magical in nature and suppressed by the sword’s void aura.

While I dodged the tiger’s claws, Patrick flew upward and blasted the other two with lightning…which simply hit them and crackled around their bodies. I winced. Lightning worked very well against some metal creatures — it could shut down some types of golems, for example — but in other cases…Well, now we had magnetic lightning tigers to deal with.

Fortunately, as one of the tigers swept a paw at me and projected an arc of lightning, I was able to sweep right through it with Mr. Stabbington without difficulty.

Then, as the first tiger tried to circle me, I simply rushed it and jabbed Mr. Stabbington straight through its protective hide. The tiger hissed as my blade bit right through it, Mr. Stabbington’s void aura proving just as effective at negating the creature’s defenses as it had with the magnetism.

The tiger wrenched away to dislodge my sword, but I followed as it retreated, taking two more swings at the creature’s neck. On the final swing, it simply vanished.

…I didn’t know if it had taken too much damage or if the void aura had simply dispelled the summon. Either way, I had to spin around as another tiger lunged at my back.

I reacted fast enough to face it, but not quickly enough to avoid it. The tiger hit me with tremendous force, pushing me straight to the ground. My vision swam as my head hit the ground…and the armor beneath my shirt was wrenched violently upward toward the tiger. Apparently, the close proximity was too much for my sword to negate.

…And the electrical charge still flowing through the tiger jumped to that metal, sending electrical agony surging through my chest.

I was too stunned to do anything as the tiger’s metallic jaws moved toward my throat.

A blast of compressed air hurled the tiger off me, with Patrick following straight behind it. The tiger landed on its feet, swiping at Patrick, but Patrick adjusted mid-flight skidded to the ground, sliding right behind the tiger and raising Bright Reflection.

“Burning Brand!” Flames burst from his hands and flowed along his sword’s edges as he brought it down, slicing cleanly through the tiger’s back and leaving a trail of molten metal. The tiger vanished the instant his sword passed through its spine.

That’s…new. I blinked at the technique, presumably stolen from Keras’ stories about Soulbrand, or perhaps taught to Patrick directly when I wasn’t around.

I didn’t have much time to ponder before the third tiger leapt at me.

I was still on the ground…but fortunately, the tiger had made the mistake of leaping straight over Selys-Lyann.

I snapped my fingers, channeling mana through the mana threads connecting me to the sword.

A pillar of ice flashed upward from the sword, freezing the tiger’s chest in mid-jump.

I pushed myself to my feet, cracking my neck. The tiger growled.

“Sorry.”

Then I slammed Mr. Stabbington into the tiger’s neck.

The monster vanished to another surge of applause.

I tossed Mr. Stabbington to my left hand as I pulled Selys- Lyann out of the floor, then gave a brief flourish toward the next wall as it fell.

A smile crossed my face.

This…I could get used to this.

I gave Patrick a quick glance. He gave me an “I’m good” gesture, then flew back up in the air.

…Which proved to be a good decision, since the next monster that emerged was a titanic earth elemental. It wasn’t the humanoid kind — instead, it was shaped like a twelve-foot-tall polyhedron, which simply rolled across the ground toward me the moment it was visible.

I swung Selys-Lyann to project another blast of ice, but the impact glanced off without the slightest hint of an impact.

Then I was running, ten tons of stone rolling right behind me.

Oh, come on!Without my Haste spell, I probably would have been smushed into a puddle within a few moments.

Oh, yeah. Survival Matches are completely safe. No chances of horrible demise at all.

Of course, just as I was complaining to myself about the unfairness of the elemental, it decided to grow a series of spikes and fire them at me while it continued to roll.

Eep!I flipped around to deflect a couple of the spikes, with others missing or leaving cracks in my shields, then used my ring to blast myself into the air, straight over the rolling die. With a second jump, I threw myself behind it, landing and swinging Mr. Stabbington to cut a gouge into the stone— but that barely had any impact. If this thing had a core, it was far too deep for me to reach with a single swing.

…It kept rolling until it hit the barrier at the edge of the stage, then bounced backward and started rolling straight toward me again.

I was beginning to regret being the only member of my immediate team that didn’t have a way to fly.

I made a panicked rush across the stage in the opposite direction to the laughter of the audience — I’m sure it was much funnier to people who weren’t in imminent splatter danger.

A hail of blasts of fire and lightning smashed into the elemental from the sky, sending chunks of stone falling everywhere, but they barely slowed the creature down.

Think, think!When I neared the barrier on the other side of the stage, I jumped again — then flipped in mid-air to kick straight off the barrier wall and land behind the rolling die again. Just before it could slam into the barrier and rebound off, I swung Selys-Lyann — not at the elemental, but at the ground. A burst of transference widened my swing, creating a massive patch of ice. Then, I jumped clear.

When the elemental hit the next barrier, it bounced right into the ice-slicked floor, sending it tumbling with great speed—Which only got faster when I slammed a transference blast into it, followed by a burst of wind from Patrick.

The elemental slammed into the opposite wall with such speed that the elemental exploded on impact—Or, at least, the outer shell did.

As a hail of stone splitters burst from the impact, a much smaller core floated out of the remains, levitating jagged shards of stone around it.

The core was bright green at first…but it flashed red in a moment as the creature’s remains spun toward me.

Were they…angry?Uh oh.

Hundreds of chunks of jagged stone blasted in my direction.

I thrust Selys-Lyann into the ground and sent another burst of mana through it, forming a wall of ice. That stopped the first few stones—But not the next few hundred.

As the ice shattered, I focused on the mana threads connecting to my shield sigils, rapidly recharging the shields and shifting them to absorb as much as I could of the impact.

…They still shattered as my mana dipped precipitously, several chunks of stone passing straight through my shroud and hitting my arms and shoulders. My armor, still worn under my shirt, absorbed much of the remaining impact — but not enough to prevent some bruises.

I breathed heavily, one particular bruise on my arm painful enough that I could barely raise my right hand.

Fortunately, I only needed my left.

As the stone shards trembled on the ground and began to move back toward the core, I swung Mr. Stabbington and projected a wave of void. The cutting blackness shot across the arena and sliced straight through the core, severing it in half.

The core vanished. The stone fragments fell silent.

Patrick landed next to me, breathing heavily, “…You… okay?”

I tried to raise my arm to give him an affirmative gesture, but winced at sudden shooting pain and had to stop. “… Mostly.”

If I was hurting that much while regenerating — which I still was, since that function of my shield sigil was active even if the shields were broken — that wasn’t a good sign.

I sheathed Selys-Lyann and reached into my pouch as the next wall began to fall. “Retrieve: Grey mana battery.”

I didn’t have much time, but I siphoned as much mana as I could out of the battery to recharge my shields, then stored it again. My shields flickered back on, but I wasn’t able to fully recharge them in the thirty seconds or so between fights.

Better than nothing. And I’ve got…almost nothing else left.

My mana was precipitously low. I pulled what I could out of my mana regeneration storage, which helped a bit, but my overall supply was getting into a dangerous range.

But by my count, this was the last battle of the first section of the Survival Match, and I wasn’t planning to give up this soon.

…I almost changed my mind when I saw what was standing behind the door.

Or rather who.

A tall woman wearing armor of brilliant purple scales, carrying a vicious-looking red-bladed glaive that seemed to vibrate in place. Her hair was turquoise flecked with splotches of blue and green.

She cracked her knuckles as she saw us, a halo of water surrounding her.

“Hello, boys. I’ve heard you met my sister. And survived, no less.” She gave us a predatory smile, showing curved fangs that might have dispelled any illusions that we were facing something human. Of course, between the hair and the sister reference, I hadn’t had that misconception at all.

As she shifted to a combat stance, my mind raced.

Mizuchi, the Hero’s End, had a number of sisters.

The Scales of the Serpent were all horrendously powerful.

Any child of a God Beast was.

Which ones would be willing to kill us in the middle of an arena match?…That was one subject that wasn’t my area of expertise.

But I did know one thing for certain—Patrick and I stood absolutely no chance against any of them.

Not under normal circumstances, anyway.

A summoned monster was limited by the power of the Summoner — unless, of course, it was a true summon, which actually moved the monster.

In this case…virtually no one could summon one of the children of a god beast with any fraction of the real entity’s strength. The only one who could have gotten close that I knew of was…“Ladies, Gentlemen, and Wyddsfolk, please give your applause to tonight’s guest Summoner, Lady Elora Theas, and her chosen champion…the legendary serpent, Satsuki, Scale of Seiryu!”

…I was in serious trouble.

