CHAPTER III – SURVIVAL

The rest of the day was sort of a blur. I worked a little bit on Derek’s home enchantments, took notes, and generally tried to avoid talking about my problems. Everyone tried to talk to me about them at one point or another, but I’d had quite enough conversations about what happened with my father. I wasn’t really interested in trying to explore that further just yet.

I spent some extra time setting up some added security for my own room, but whoever Derek had hired had already done a pretty good job with it. Over the next couple days, I inspected the house for anything suspicious that the other Enchanter might have done to sabotage the place, but I didn’t find anything out of the ordinary.

People generally gave me the space that I needed to process what had happened during those first couple days. That was good — I needed the time. Occasionally, Sera dragged me down to dinner to eat, which was about the limit of what I was capable of socially. I was a little resistant even to that, but ultimately, I was grateful for it.

It wasn’t a good time for me to be alone, even if that sometimes felt like all I wanted. It was hard not to think of myself as a burden, or a failure, even though I knew intellectually that I hadn’t done anything wrong.

I didn’t talk much during dinner, although I did ask Yunika and Cecily if they’d heard from Tristan. They seemed a little surprised that I asked openly, but everyone there was aware of Tristan’s survival, and I simply didn’t have the energy for subtlety. Unfortunately, neither Yunika nor Cecily had heard anything from Tristan in weeks. That was worrying. Yunika postulated that the books might have simply stopped working due to the spire being sealed more completely by Katashi after my last adventure inside. That was a comforting potential explanation, but not one I could relyon. I wished I was in a position to investigate, but given how badly my last trip into the spire had gone, I didn’t think it would be wise to make any immediate rescue attempts, even if I could somehow get in there. I needed a solid plan first…and I was simply too exhausted and overwhelmed to make one.

It was the third day back in Valia when Patrick tentatively reached out with an offer during lunch. “So…how would you feel about going to a Survival Match?”

I paused to consider. I still didn’t feel like leaving the house. Even going downstairs felt like…effort. More effort than I was capable of at times.

And being around so many people? That made me shudder to think about. I didn’t like being in crowds at the best of times, and while being seated in an audience wasn’t quite as bad as being pressed into a crowd that was standing, I wasn’t in a great mental place.

Still, intellectually, I was able to remember that I’d enjoyed watching the Survival Match that Sera and Derek had participated in. I mean, I’d been furious with Derek in the aftermath, but I’d still found it exciting. “…Who is fighting?”

“Well, there’s been a last-minute cancellation, and…if you’re interested…” Patrick gave me a mischievous grin. “… we are.”

I stared at him. “…Wait, what? Really? You can get us in there to fight?”

“No, no, no,” he raised his hands. “Derek can get us in there to fight. He’s doing a big match later in the same evening and it’s a warm-up team before his that cancelled. He knows the organizers, of course, and he’s thinks he can slip us in — but he needs an answer soon.”

“…I don’t know. Wouldn’t Mara be a better fit?”

Patrick shook his head vehemently. “No, that’s…probably not a good idea. Not after last time.”

I blinked. “She’s done it before?”

“Oh, yeah. Last year. No one told you? That’s, uh…well, she did a match with Keras. They both went masked and costumed, full-on disguise stuff so he wouldn’t be recognized. Absolutely obliterated the monsters. Mara…uh, she liked it a lot…and might have misread the situation a little.”

“…Misread? How so?”

“She kind of thought it was a date. That’s…when she asked Keras to the winter ball.”

“Oh. Oh.” I sighed. “I knew she’d asked him, and that he turned her down because she was too young, but I didn’t know the circumstances. That…yeah, that makes sense. And you think having her go back there would remind her of it?”

“Definitely. I mean, she’d probably still do it — she loves fighting — but I think it might bring her down more than up, you know?”

I could understand it when he explained it, but honestly, I never would have been able to evaluate that kind of thing. Patrick was just…much better with people than I was.

“…And Sera?” I asked.

“Not as severe of a problem, but she’s already done a fight in there before, too, and she’s technically already placed in a specific competition bracket, based on her performance with Derek. That’s…not a level that Sera and I could handle on our own. Now, she could go in disguise like Keras and Mara did, entering under a different name so she has a fresh start with me, but that might be complicated, since she’s planning to do another match with Derek later in the year…”

“Ah. I get it.” And, in spite of not generally being good with people, I also did process the fact that Patrick was probably playing up the difficulties of getting one of the others involved specifically to make me feel better about accepting. I didn’t mind — it was kind of him.

I took a moment to consider, wrestling with myself. Was I ready to fight in front of a crowd? Did I want to?If nothing else, it’ll be good practice for the duel. And… I want to see what I can do.

I took a deep breath, steadied my resolve, then nodded to Patrick.

“Let’s do this.”

“Awesome! Now, there’s some paperwork to sign…” I groaned and got to work.

***I set down the last of a massive pile of documents on the table, then turned toward Derek.

“I have a few questions about page 37, under the subheading ‘Permanent Maiming’?”

Derek rolled his eyes. “Maybe you should have been the one with the contract attunement. Ugh. I’m going to need an actual lawyer to answer some of these questions of yours.”

“Sorry. I mean, not actually sorry, because the chance of maiming is something the rules should be unambiguous about, but I don’t like to inconvenience you?”

He laughed. “It’s fine. Elora can probably answer your more technical questions. She should be here in a few minutes.”

“Elora is coming?” I raised an eyebrow. Of course, my mind also jumped to wondering if Sheridan would be present as well, but I didn’t ask that.

“Coming? More than that — she’s participating on the summoning side.”

I gulped. If Elora Theas held a grudge for…well, any interaction we ever had…this would be a great chance for her to take advantage of that.

I considered backing out, because preserving my life was my highest priority, but I also didn’t want to inconvenience anyone  with  something  as  trivial  as  my  concerns  aboutbeing potentially murdered. I did enough of that on a daily basis as-is.

…I’d made some questionable life choices, hadn’t I? “Before she gets here…I have a more personal questionfor you.”

“Oh?” Derek looked intrigued. “What would that be?” “Nothing in here indicates how hard we’re supposed tofight. Are we intended to hold back as much as you did in your match with Sera?”

Derek gave me a quizzical look. “When did you notice?” “I mean, you turned your aura from Sunstone to Citrine inthe middle of the match, but never went up to Emerald. That much was clear enough from the moment I found out your real level, and the reason was understandable. I know Emerald-levels aren’t supposed to show off their abilities if they aren’t public knowledge. Looking back, though, you reduced your abilities far beyond what you needed to. I assume that was mostly for showmanship, since just obliterating everything the match throws at you wouldn’t be much fun for the audience?”

Derek smiled. “You’re right about one thing. I could have handled everything they threw at me without breaking a sweat. For that matter, even Tavare or Delsys could have.”

“Even after Elora got involved?”

Derek snorted. “Please. If Elora was summoning anything at her full strength, we wouldn’t have had an arena. That was performative, too.”

“A whole lovers’ quarrel was staged for entertainment?” “Oh,  no,  she  was  actually  angry  at  me,  and  I  wassincerely surprised when she first appeared. But she was never summoning anything that presented a real risk — throwing some monsters at me was more of a symbolic way to vent her frustration.”

“…Should I expect any similar twists in my own match?” “Goodness,  no.  Not  unless  you’ve  annoyed  anySummoners recently? Or…Invokers, perhaps?”

I certainly hoped I hadn’t.

I briefly pictured Seiryu appearing in the middle of the arena and biting me in half, then shook my head. Sera could get vindictive, but that idea was just ridiculous. “…I think I’ll be okay. That said…you weren’t just holding back to entertain people, were you? You’ve trained yourself to hold back in general…and I get the impression it goes beyond the ‘Emeralds don’t show their abilities’ thing.”

Derek’s expression went completely flat for a moment as he considered me. I froze, unused to the absence of his usual cheer. When his smile returned, it felt just as fake as his arena performance had been. “When someone reaches a level of power that would put them in the public spotlight, they have two main choices — embrace it, as Auntie Meltlake did, or to maintain a consistent pretense of powerlessness. I have more reasons than most to play the latter part, at least in public.”

“Does this have something to do with the expectations that come with the Hartigan family name?”

“That’s one reason among many…and one that parallels a decision you’re going to have to make for yourself soon enough. You may not be an Emerald, but your abilities are expanding rapidly, and in ways that could impact far more than just your group of friends. You’ve seen it in how Farren treated you. Like it or not, the more people know what you’re truly capable of, the more political machinations you’re going to become a part of. If you want to avoid that, you’re going to have to start deciding which cards to keep in your sleeve.”

I knew all that, of course, at least intellectually…but there was a difference between knowing something and acting on it.

I was still considering how to respond — and how I wanted to live my life, when the time came to make a choice about how public to make my power — when the front door flew open without a knock.

Elora Theas stood there, resplendent in red.

Derek and I turned to her at once. I was confident that the door had been locked, but I supposed that something as mundane as a door lock was optional for an Emerald-level Summoner.

…Or she just had a house key.

“Well, come on, step outside,” she ushered us. “Someone set up anti-teleportation runes, so I can’t move us while we’re indoors. Well, not without breaking them.”

I didn’t care much about the implication that she could break the anti-teleportation runes — that much was obvious. She was an Emerald, of course she could.

…For now.

I had some plans for layering defenses that even Elora wouldn’t be able to work through easily, but that was a problem for my future self, and one I certainly didn’t plan to mention to anyone who might be a future threat.

“Corin had some questions about the paperwork,” Derek offered helpfully.

“Oh, did he now?” Elora gave me a razor-sharp smile. “Well, why don’t we take a look in my office? Come along.”

We stepped outside. Elora snapped her fingers — an unnecessary flourish, of course — and then we were elsewhere.

I was getting used to teleportation enough that I barely swayed when we arrived in what was, in fact, an actual office.

“Please, have a seat.”

We did. I set down my stack of papers. Elora pulled on a pair of reading glasses.

This, I admit, changed my perception of her persona entirely in a fraction of a second. It was amazing how much glasses changed how someone looked — she quickly went from “elegant noblewoman who could murder me without getting  blood  on  her  fashionable  dress”  to  “elegantnoblewoman who could murder me without closing the book she was reading”.

A subtle distinction, really, but an important one.

Anyway, we discussed mind-numbing paperwork for a while.

“Really, Corin, you don’t need to be so worried about all this. I don’t have any intention of letting you be killed or seriously injured. The family doesn’t profit from permanent injuries — only fixable ones.”

I blinked. “Wait…how would you profit from…oh. Wait, wait. Are you implying Sheridan gets paid for fixing people up who get hurt here…?” I gave her a frown. “Isn’t that a bit of a conflict of interest? You’d have an incentive to cause harm.”

“Oh, dear, a conflict of interest?” Elora put a hand to her heart. “Whatever shall we do? I suppose we’ll need to talk to the government official responsible for fair business practices. Oh, wait.” She fluttered her eyes. “That’s me, isn’t it? Oops.”

I rubbed my temples. “…Just try to keep the maiming to a minimum. I have classes soon.”

“Naturally, Corin. Fear not. I have no interest in hurting you in a simple game like this. Not badly, anyway. The profit margins would be slim. Then again, it would give Sheridan an excuse to spend some time with you while tending to your wounds, which would—”

Derek prodded a finger in Elora’s arm. “That’s enough scaring the kid. Can we get on with this?”

“Ruin all my fun, will you? Very well.” Elora clapped her hands. “Let the games begin.”

***In spite of Elora’s dramatic line, it actually took a couple hours before the games did begin. Most of that was mind- numbingly boring waiting, although a part of it was spent picking up Patrick and answering his questions about the paperwork and that sort of thing.

The Survival Match arena looked different from the inside.

Smaller. Tighter.

This particular match was setup with a stone floor on a circular stage. The total diameter wasn’t too bad — probably like a hundred feet or so — but less than half was currently accessible. Like with Sera’s match the year before, the stage was segmented by a number of walls, each of which would come down to reveal more monsters at a later stage of the match. Someone like Elora could just summon a monster anywhere she wanted and teleport it into the arena, but I supposed that this style of setting up monsters in advance was easier for the lower-level Summoners involved, and probably easier from a logistics standpoint.

I wondered what the monsters were doing between those walls while they waited. Were they bored? Did they have anything to read?Patrick was nervously shifting from foot-to-foot while we waited for the curtains to come up and reveal the start of the match to the audience. This wasn’t the same arena that Sera and Derek had used, but the setup was mostly similar— there were several layers of seating set up around the arena, similar to a concert hall. I knew that somewhere above us, Sera and Mara were in the stands. Derek would be waiting and watching, too, before he got ushered into the preparation room for his own match. I wasn’t sure if that would mean that he’d get to see our whole fight or not.

Is Keras here?I didn’t know. I hoped he was. I wished I’d asked him — he looked like he was in a place where watching a fight would cheer him up. And, in case Elora did try anything strange…Well, I knew he’d jump in before I could get hurt too badly, regardless of what the rules said.

There was some comfort in that. It might be embarrassing to be rescued, but I preferred that to losing anarm or a leg.

I could have sent him a message to ask if he was present, but that felt too awkward. It probably should have occurred to me to just ask Patrick, since he was better with people, but I didn’t.

“So…” Patrick gestured at the first wall. “What do you think is back there?”

“Something low-level for the first one. Just slimes, or imps, or maybe a goblin or two. They’ll likely use the first couple walls to calibrate what they can send for the second wave.”

“Oh! I was thinking they’d have everything planned out ahead of time, but I guess that makes sense. How long do you think we’re going to last?”

“I—”

A booming voice echoed over the arena, interrupting my response. “Gentlemen, ladies, and Wyddsfolk, welcome to the final matches of the winter season! And given that we’re at the end of the season, our Summoners have decided to give us something very special tonight!’My  estimates  for  our  survival  time  went  sharplydownward.

Patrick and I glanced at each other with trepidation. Then our hands went to the swords at our sides. “Let’s begin!”

We drew our swords as the first wall came down.

