CHAPTER VI – ORIENTATION

The few days that followed were probably the closest thing to a “vacation” I’d managed during the entire winter break, but after that, it was finally time to go back to school. Lorian Heights wasn’t far away, but it felt difficult to rouse myself to walk through those gates again. The others didn’t seem to struggle with it the same way that I did, so I let them drag me along, finding myself lost in thought as we drifted toward the grassy park area in the center of campus

for orientation.

We were arriving much earlier in the year than we had as first-year students. I already understood why: Judgments for fresh seventeen-year-olds had taken place in the middle of the year, meaning that first-year students only had one semester. Our second year at Lorian Heights would take place across much of the year, but would be split into two semesters. The first semester would be short, then we’d have a brief break, then the second semester would take place at the same time as the first-year students started.

At least, that was how things traditionally worked.

When we arrived on the grass, I discovered immediately that something strange was going on: there was a large group of students that had unusual black-trimmed uniforms. Older students, people who had been already been in their second year when I was in my first.

Lorian Heights was only a two-year school, so those students should have mostly graduated or failed out. Some students would be held back, but those students shouldn’t have had new uniforms — they would have just been repeating the second year.

There were a lot of them, too. Hundreds or more.

What’s going on?I got my answer pretty quickly after the opening ceremonies started.

People sang the boring school song and all that, then Vice Chancellor Bennett — who was, apparently, still the Vice Chancellor — began his speech. The older military officer looked much the same as before, though I thought I caught a hint of new weariness behind his eyes.

“Welcome back to Lorian Heights. You’ve all done well to make it this far, succeeding at the tests you’ve been given and proving your worth. As most of you are no doubt already aware, last year we suffered a tragic event at the winter ball, suffering terrible losses. Those losses included some of our nation’s greatest servants, and included among them were some of our academy’s staff.”

Collectively, the student base drew in a sharp breath. I’m sure many people were expecting a speech along these lines, but I hadn’t really thought about it.

The Vice Chancellor continued. “Chief among these losses was Chancellor Wallace. She was a formidable woman, an inspiration to many of us, and a renowned scholar. For many years, her guidance brought our school unparalleled success, training students to a higher standard than ever before. We will miss her greatly. Please, join me in a moment of blindness for Chancellor Wallace and all those lost in the attack.”

I closed my eyes, as was traditional for moments of grief like this one.

Moments passed. I remembered.

I remembered Mizuchi’s attacks. Her magic paralyzing the entire chamber, containing thousands of people.

I remembered watching people I respected die.

I remembered fighting worthlessly against an opponent that outstripped my abilities to such an extent that I could not have hoped to survive if she hadn’t been deliberately holding back.

I remembered Professor Conway intervening to save us. I remembered hearing him die.

I remembered nearly killing Patrick in my failed attempt to heal his injuries.

I remembered Professor Vellum’s fight-ending move, a banishment spell that nearly killed her in the process.

I drew in a deep breath, willing my eyes to remain shut.

Eventually, the Vice Chancellor’s words resumed. “You may open your eyes.”

I took a breath.

The Vice Chancellor continued. “Later today, we will hold a vigil for all those who were lost in this brazen and unwarranted attack on our nation. For every life lost on that terrible day, we are diminished.”

He straightened, his eyes narrowing. “Our enemies have stolen from our future, and this will not be forgotten.”

I…wasn’t quite sure what to make of that. It sounded less like a simple gesture of reverence toward the deceased and more like a threat.

Was he planning some kind of retribution?His	next	words	didn’t	clarify	that,	but	they	were important, nonetheless. “In my absence from that event, I failed you. I also failed when monster forces left the Serpent Spire to breach the school’s gates, forcing our student base into shelters. The lack of security for our students proved that steps would need to be taken in order to ensure that an enemy of such great power would never slip within our midst again. For this reason, significant changes will be made to operations on the campus. To explain these further, I would like to introduce our new chancellor, though I fear she needs no introduction. You all know her already, both as a former professor and one of our nation’s greatest heroes.” Students scanned the platform for another figure, but no one was near him. Our failure was simple: most of us didn’tthink to look up.

“Please join me in welcoming our new Chancellor: Antonia Meltlake.”

There was a crack of thunder as professor…or, rather, former professor…Meltlake ripped through the clouds at absurd speed to land straight in the center of the stage, her entire body surrounded by a shroud of golden smoke and fire.

I knew she liked a little bit of spectacle, but this was new.

Different.

The look in Chancellor Meltlake’s eyes was entirely different from what I’d seen last. Focused. Determined. Maybe even a little playful.

Chancellor Meltlake snapped her fingers, extinguishing the flames from her shroud. “Welcome back, students. Now, are you ready to learn some real magic?”

There was a moment of stunned silence, followed by an absolute roar of approval.

Meltlake grinned. “I thought so.” She clapped her hands. Three copies of her appeared at her sides, then took positions behind her. Each was identical to her, save for wearing different colored robes. “Thank you to the Vice Chancellor for the introduction and opening this ceremony. As he mentioned, we’re going to have some changes around here. For starters, I’ll be splitting up our student base for this semester into three segments. First, there are the fresh second-years. You’ll be following Meltlake Red after this concludes. Next, those of you who were second years that didn’t complete the minimum criteria for graduation last year will be following Meltlake Blue. Finally, I’m sure you’ve all noticed that we have a segment of students that successfully graduated. These represent a new class that are here for extended training and to provide the additional security that the vice chancellor mentioned. They will be following Meltlake Purple.”

I blinked, processing. So, some people are effectively getting a third year? I wonder if that’s temporary or something that is intended to be long-term.

Meltlake continued her explanation. “Throughout this semester, we’ll be evaluating each of you carefully for your placement in one of our academy’s proudest traditions — war games. Between the first and second semesters, you’ll be sent to one of our training bases to participate in simulated war exercises. These activities vary from year-to- year. Some war games are held in cooperation with other academies, whereas other years we hold them on our own. Pay close attention throughout this semester and you may see some hints of things to come.”

I’d heard a little bit about war games for second-year students before, but the presence of the third-year students was probably going to involve some new dynamics. Wheels were already turning in my head about possible scenarios, like escort missions, defending fortifications, and that sort of thing.

…But if I wanted to make it to the war games at all, I’d have to deal with my father first. Our duel hadn’t been formally scheduled yet, but I had to imagine we’d be fighting before the war games, rather than afterward.

I couldn’t think on that too much. Professor — no, Chancellor — Meltlake was still talking.

“This year will include a new mandatory class intended to help you learn to develop your attunements faster. I’ve personally designed this course with knowledge that has been hidden from the general populace for years with the intent of allowing famous families — like my own former house — to remain in power. I expect there are going to be some concerns from members of those houses that I am breaking some unspoken rules by jeopardizing their advantages. I have one thing to say to those people.”

Meltlake’s smile widened. “I am once again accepting requests for duels.”

And on that note, Chancellor Meltlake snapped her fingers and vanished in a burst of smoke and fire.

The three copies spread out simultaneously, glanced briefly at each other, then spoke as one. “Students, please break into your designated groups and follow us.”

There was an excited murmur as the students quickly complied.

At my right side, Patrick burst into gleeful laughter. “She’s alive! She’s alive! Come on!”

Still laughing, he led our group to follow our own designated Chancellor Meltlake.

This is going to be a different kind of school year, isn’t it?Strangely enough, I found myself looking forward to it.

***Meltlake Red led us to one of the main administration buildings, then stood outside the door and projected her voice to the group. “Form a line. You’ll be getting your mandatory class schedules here, as well as assigned to an advisor. You have also been assigned to teams, generally the same team as last year, but with one open slot. Over the following weeks, you will pick a sixth member for your team. This sixth member can be from Red Division — that’s you — or one of the other two divisions comprised of older students. You may also register if you wish to leave your current team or have a team member removed.”

I winced, thinking of Jin. He was probably still slotted with us…assuming he was even present for the second year. I didn’t know exactly how things worked for him, given that he’d earned his attunement at a younger age.

I did see a few other people around that looked like transfer students, but not Jin himself. Maybe he was there and simply in a different part of the giant crowd…or maybe he didn’t want to be seen.

Anyway, we lined up, got our class assignments, and quickly confirmed that we were on the same team as before.

We also picked up some school-mandated supplies. Second-year uniforms. School issued shield sigils for peoplewho didn’t have them already. Dorm room keys. (I still had an assigned dorm room, even if I wasn’t staying in it. I briefly went and checked it out, just to make sure my keys worked, and then promptly abandoned it.)After that, we headed back to Derek’s house to talk… aside from Patrick. He went to talk to Meltlake Red, then briefly came back to tell us he was going off to meet with the real Meltlake privately somewhere. I wasn’t surprised, given that he was her apprentice.

We sat down around a huge new kitchen table. “So,” Sera started, “Cecily, do you need a team?”

Cecily blinked. “I’m…not sure? My team is still mostly intact from last year. A couple people didn’t make it to the second year, but I’m not sure if we’re disbanding yet. I’ll have to talk to them first.” She frowned. “Are you sure you’d want me? Wouldn’t a healer make more sense for your existing group composition?”

“Sure, in a traditional group setup a dedicated healer would be ideal, but we don’t really need it. And Corin is a healer, even if he’s kind of awful at it.”

“I’d argue, but honestly, I am an awful healer. I’m probably going to take an elective on it this year, but I don’t ever expect to specialize in it.”

“Are there even healing elective options?” Sera asked.

I shrugged. “Don’t know. Haven’t looked at the list yet.” “Could be that I’ll end up doin’ some healin’, too.” Maraturned to me. “Now that I’m Sunstone, I’ve got a good enough combat foundation that learnin’ a few healin’ spells may not be a bad idea. Think you could teach me that regeneration one?”

“Yeah, absolutely. You could probably learn a stronger one than mine. Hm. Actually, I’m probably ready for a higher-level regeneration spell if I’m willing to dip into both mana pools for it…”

“So, we’re not critically short on healing,” Sera concluded.  “And  we  have  every  other  major  archetypecovered. Mara is a beast on the front line. Patrick is our dedicated ranged attacker. Corin and I are both support. And Jin…well, we’ll see if we’re keeping him, but he’s extremely capable at both stealth and crowd control. Now that we actually know what his attunement is, maybe we can lean into that for tactics a bit more.”

“…Are you comfortable keeping him on the team?” I asked. Admittedly, I wasn’t sure about my own answer on the subject yet.

Sera’s reply was a safe answer. “Worth talking to him and hearing his own thoughts, I think.”

“Same. Don’t trust ‘em, but seems like he’s tryin’ hard to make up for what he did, and I’d be willin’ to hear him out. Sides,” Mara smirked, “I’m at his level now. He tries anything funny…” She slammed a fist into her other empty palm and a thunderous crack split the air. “He’ll get what’s comin’ to him.”

...I wasn’t sure I liked how excited she looked when she said that.

She might have overdone the display, since Keras practically flew downstairs a moment later, his hand extended to his right side with an aura already beginning to form around it. “What was that sound?”

Mara wilted. “…Sorry, just got a little excited. S’fine.” Keras scanned the room briefly, then turned to Mara.

“Don’t surprise me like that.”

Then, in a blur, he vanished back upstairs.

Awkward.

After that, we got back to talking, but the basics remained the same: Cecily needed to talk to her team and someone needed to talk to Jin.

I was pretty keen on that someone being anyone other than me, but I had a feeling I knew how things were going to end up playing out.

***Our next order of business was looking over our mandatory schedules and the documentation we’d been given for choosing elective classes. This took longer than I’d expected, simply due to the sheer number of electives available to second-year students. Most of the first-year electives were still available, then there were second-year versions of them, as well as some new classes that didn’t map directly to ones I’d seen before.

We also had a bit more free time in our schedules: there were only four mandatory classes for second-year students. Two of these four were universal: Physical Training in the morning every day and Attunement Optimization, the new course that Meltlake had mentioned in the orientation briefing. The other two mandatory classes were attunement- specific. In my case, that meant Intermediate Mana Manipulation and Intermediate Enchanting.

My understanding was that these mandatory classes were all multi-semester classes, meaning that we’d start them now and then continue them after the break and the war games. There were some elective classes that only lasted one semester, but I intended to fill out all my class slots with multi-semester ones. Adapting to new teachers and new people was annoying, and I tended to prefer to specialize in general. If I didn’t like an elective…well, maybe I could drop out of it if I really had to.

Most people were expected to take two electives to fill out a standard schedule of six classes. I was leaning toward taking three, but that required a bit more schedule juggling.

I also wasn’t quite sure what to prioritize.

Naturally, most people picked electives that corresponded directly to their attunement. I had two attunements, however, and one of them didn’t have any classes about it. There just weren’t enough Arbiters to justify a class about them.

That might have made it obvious that I should just take a bunch of Enchanting courses, but I wasn’t sure how many ofthem would actually be useful. I’d gotten some esoteric Enchanting experience from my lessons from Vellum and my visit to Caelford. I wasn’t sure a random elective would teach me much.

There were a few Enchanting-focused electives I considered.

Intermediate Art of Artifice was Vellum’s second-year course and the most obvious option. She knew what she’d already covered the first year, after all, and presumably she’d have plenty left to cover. I wasn’t sure if that would just be more unfamiliar runes or if she’d get into more advanced topics like compound runes and attunement design. The class summary was unhelpful in that regard, it just said, “Take this if you don’t want to be a terrible Enchanter.”

That sounded like Vellum, which was comforting in a way, but I remained skeptical about the usefulness of the course.

Introduction to Potions Making for Enchanters would help me fill in one of my obvious educational gaps and let me work toward making attunement primers and enhancement elixirs, both of which were on my long-term goals list.

Elemental Enchantments had a specialized focus on how to make effective equipment for fighting monsters with elemental strengths and weaknesses. Given how much spire climbing I was doing, it sounded like the class might be a good investment, but I also had to wonder if it would be redundant with lessons from Keras and Derek.

Mana Manufacturing was focused on transmuting personal mana into other states. Basically, making mana crystals and liquid mana. Maybe there were other options as well, like gaseous mana? The class description didn’t say. I considered this as a good option for practicing making liquid mana and learning more about the theory behind it, but I didn’t know if it would be necessary with my existing mana manipulation skill and a mandatory class on a similar topic.

Foreign Attunements and You apparently covered the specialized functions of most foreign attunements. The concept reminded me of what Jin had asked me to do in the first year and I wondered if it might be useful both in terms of knowledge and attunement fabrication practice.

There were also some classes dedicated to studies on a specific base mana type, like life mana or transference mana. These were legitimately tempting, especially ones that might help me figure out how to assemble additional composite mana types from the base mana types I already had access to.

Ultimately, I decided to keep a “slot” open in my schedule for an Enchanting class and held off on picking one. I wanted to ask Vellum about her second-year course before making a choice.

There were over a hundred other elective class options, so I had quite a bit to sort through. Ultimately, given the duel looming over me at the end of the year, it was obvious that I was going to take the second-year dueling course.

I picked that up. So did Sera, Patrick, and Mara. We picked the same time slot to continue sharing the class. Cecily didn’t pick it, citing a lack of interest, but showing some other emotions I didn’t want to dig into.

She had her own dueling-related history and I wasn’t ready to talk about it. Not yet.

That left me with one more potential slot for an elective, presuming I planned for a total of seven classes. I could have taken two Enchanting-related electives, but I decided I wanted to do something that fed into my Arbiter attunement’s abilities at least a little bit.

There weren’t a lot of options there.

Diplomacy in Attuned Society was probably the most on- topic, but it sounded like the type of class I would absolutely loathe. Similarly, International Politics and Religion was probably useful, but not the type of thing I wanted to spend time on.

There weren’t any classes on the interior workings of attunements, but there were some other classes that were tangentially related. Specifically, Alternate Magic Sources apparently talked about ways to earn magic without attunements and Introduction to Healing for Non-Menders was exactly what it sounded like.

I was more interested in the former, but the latter was more practical. The healing class also had the advantage that Mara was considering taking it, and if I chose it, we could take the class together.

I decided to wait and see what Vellum advised on that subject, too. That left me with a clear next point of action: it was time to pay a visit to a salty old mentor.

***I found Professor Vellum at her office, which was fortunate, since it meant she wasn’t in the hospital. While the entire winter vacation had been plenty of time to recover, I knew that banishing Mizuchi had taken a serious toll on her health. If she’d caused herself mana scarring in that process, there was a good chance she still hadn’t healed completely.

I knocked on the office door.

“I’m sorry, Professor Vellum is not currently in her office,” came Vellum’s voice from the other side of the door. “If you need help, I recommend finding a better university.”

I snorted. “It’s Corin.”

An exhausted sigh came from the other side of the door. “Oh, come in. Someone has to pay for my suffering.”

I opened the door, finding Vellum sitting behind a pile of paperwork. With her hunched posture, the tall stack of parchment obscured her sitting form almost entirely.

I walked in, closed the door behind me, then gestured to the stack. “What’s all this?”

“This,” Vellum stood up, shoving one of the piles further away from her, “is the latest sign of your unfathomable hubris.”

“Uh…” I winced. “Which particular form of my hubris are we talking about?”

“Today?” Vellum snorted. “An excellent question. I’d say to take a look at the cover page, but I lost that a long time ago. This, Corin Cadence, is legal documentation for your latest escapade. And before you ask which one, because I’m sure there have been absurdities I haven’t even heard about yet, I mean the patent paperwork you attempted to file in Caelford.”

“I, uh…” I glanced from side-to-side. “It was a lot fewer pages over there?”

She let out a sigh. “Yes, of course it was. Caelford has a much faster process for filing runes, and yes, even sub- glyphs, all thanks to the wonderous matronage of Farren Labs. You know, the company you directly antagonized.” Vellum rubbed her temples. “Only a half of this mind- boggling stack is actually the Valian equivalent paperwork. The other half is legal paperwork contesting the patent claim.”

“Wait. I get all that, but…why is it in your office?” “Because I’m on-record as your supervisory council forany Valian patent until you graduate. As a student, Valia doesn’t expect you to be able to handle this sort of thing on your own, so…” She gestured with both hands toward the piles.

“…Oh. I’m, uh, sorry?”

She snorted. “Don’t worry, at least your brand of making me miserable has variety. And, for what it’s worth, I enjoyed picturing the panic on Farren’s face when she heard about this. It’s about time someone tweaked her nose. I don’t think this plan will actually work, mind you, but just causing her some distress is reward enough.”

“Not a fan of Farren?” I raised an eyebrow. “I didn’t know you had a history.”

Vellum’s expression darkened. “She came between me and my son. One day, there’ll be a reckoning for that. Fornow…well, I suppose I can tolerate a bit of mild irritation to give her the same.” She normalized in a moment, chuckling and letting the bitterness fade from her face. “You have a reason for being here, spit it out.”

“First off, I never took you up on lessons for using my sword properly. Kind of lost track of time.”

“Didn’t we all.” She shook her head. “I can’t do full weekend lessons at this point, but I can teach you a bit here and there. I suspect you’ve already picked up on much of what I intended to show you, given some of the people you’ve been living with.”

I nodded. “I’d still value your insight. And speaking of, that’s the other reason I’m here…I’d like your advice on what classes to take.”

“You? Actually asking for advice before making a life- shattering decision? I suppose I should check the stars for any other portents of the end coming.”

“Very funny.” I frowned, thinking back. “Wait, do youactually read the stars?”

“Not anymore. They tried to talk me into disastrous things, and I get enough of that from certain students.”

I rubbed my forehead. “…Do you want help with the paperwork?”

“You’ll need to be here for part of the process. Signatures and such. I wouldn’t want to hand too much of it off, though. I’m afraid it would just give you more ideas.”

***I spent the next few hours sitting with Vellum and going over the papers. Ultimately, it seemed like the patent for my Arbiter sub-glyphs was going to be much harder to get approved in Valia, and it still was going to have to go through some serious processing in Caelford as well.

But if it did work…well, I didn’t know if anyone actually had enough oversight into Farren’s processes that it could be proven if she did steal my Arbiter attunement’s abilities. If she got her hands on my sub-glyphs, she could probablyduplicate them in secret and just avoid selling copies of that particular artificial attunement.

But given that Farren Labs was contesting it, that implied I’d inconvenienced them, and they probably did have plans to sell things that utilized Arbiter capabilities. Maybe.

I still didn’t have a good handle on Farren’s motivations. Maybe I was taking what Constantine had said too seriously and failing to give her a chance. Maybe she wasn’t planning on doing anything particularly nefarious with copied Arbiter functions.

But just in case, I wanted to buy some time and get a better idea of how exactly everything worked before making any decisions. If there was any chance that Farren could turn attunements into something she could remotely monitor or destroy…well, I hoped I could find a way to out- pace her and prevent that.

…Not that it was likely I’d succeed.

As far as I could tell, doing that would require a method of adding some kind of anti-tampering function to every attunement in the world. And a good enough anti-tampering function that she couldn’t just undo it.

Honestly, it was probably the height of arrogance to even conceptualize a goal on that scale…but it was important enough that I couldn’t ignore it.

Anyway, after that, I finally got to talking to Vellum about class options.

I thought it was a foregone conclusion that she’d tell me to take her own second course. Instead, she laughed at me when I suggested it.

“Please. That class would be beyond remedial for you at this point.”

I blinked. “…You gave me a terrible grade for the first class, but you think I should skip the second?”

She scoffed. “I gave you a barely passing grade because you got too big of a head and decided to experiment during your final exam instead of doing something smart andreliable. Your mana manipulation and theory are well ahead of most Enchanters your age. Your problem is that over- developed imagination of yours. You have no discipline, but you won’t learn that in a classroom. Frankly speaking, you’d find my second year boring and useless. Take that time to go learn something completely different, or better yet, don’t take any extra classes at all. School isn’t the only way to learn, and you’re probably better off without the detritus they teach here.”

…I didn’t know what to say to that.

I considered just doing as she advised and not filling my schedule, but the idea of having too much free time was weirdly panic-inducing. I liked having a full schedule. It helped me avoid things I hated, like facing reality.

I did, however, take her advice on skipping her second- year class. That left me to choose from the other available options.

I strongly considered Introduction to Potion Making, but ultimately, most of my future goals didn’t require that I personally manufacture potions. I needed to obtain potions, but I didn’t need to do everything on my own.

Instead, I picked what was probably the least immediately useful class: Foreign Attunements and You. Getting a better idea of what each individual attunement was capable of could be incredibly useful for me in the long run, both for emulating and countering them. It also would give me a good idea of what attunements couldn’t do yet, which could help me theorize about ways to accomplish those goals through other means.

I knew that the class wouldn’t cover restricted or ascended attunements, but that was fine: I could research those through other means.

Finally, I picked up Alternate Magic Sources. I hoped it might offer some additional insight on the origins of things like the mana crystals in the Unclaimed Lands and even analogues on other continents.

I hoped that if Mara picked up the healing class, maybe she could teach me a bit of what she was learning. Alternatively, I knew I could probably ask Sheridan for help, but I wasn’t sure I wanted to owe them more favors.

With all that done, it was evening. I had dinner, spent some time making mana crystals, and went to sleep.

The next day, it was time to start my second year of school.

