CHAPTER V – SCALES OF PUNISHMENT

Memories of Mizuchi flashed through my mind as I stared across the arena. For a moment, my hand gripped my sword so tightly that I felt pain shooting through my fingers…only to be numbed as ice spread across my fingertips.

Selys-Lyann…?I could feel something from the sword, something nearing the edge of consciousness and awareness. Had I caused that by thinking of Mizuchi, or through my alarm? Or was the presence of another of Seiryu’s children the cause?Across the stage, Satsuki’s eyes shifted down to my sword, then up to meet mine directly. “You’re him. The one that fought auntie twice last year and survived.” She lifted her polearm to rest it against a shoulder. “…With that cursed sword.”

My hand grew colder still.

Cursed…I couldn’t remember anyone aside from Lars actually calling Selys-Lyann that.

Was there some truth to what he had said after all? Something even Keras hadn’t managed to notice about the weapon’s properties?More likely…perhaps there was more to the sword’s relationship to Mizuchi and the other children of the God Serpent than I’d realized. As the ice spread over my hand, I felt my mind returning to the immediacy of the threat.

Survival Match or not, I wasn’t going to let my guard down around a monster that could easily tear me in half.

Calling Mizuchi “auntie” was interesting. Maybe they weren’t sisters, like I’d thought — the Scales of the Serpent could be any descendants of the God Serpent, after all. Genealogy was a lot less important than the problem right in front of me, though.

“That’s me,” I called across the stage. “Although I’m not sure ‘cursed’ is the word that I’d use.”

It was a bit of bait — I was hoping she’d say something that gave me more of a clue.

“Well, I suppose we’ll see!” A wide grin spread across her face, revealing vicious fangs. “Try not to die too fast, okay?”

“I don’t intend to die at all.” I took a step forward, in front of Patrick, then talked to him without looking backward. “Intel?”

Everyone knew about Mizuchi — she was one of Seiryu’s oldest and most famous children. But like all the God Beasts, Seiyru was hundreds of years old and had thousands of descendants. Satsuki might have been one of Mizuchi’s direct siblings or any number of generations removed. I didn’t think I’d ever heard of her.

Patrick, on the other hand, was something of an expert on magical monsters.

“Oh, uh, sure! She’s a young one, so I don’t know a lot, but…” I heard lightning crackling from Patrick’s hands behind me, but he didn’t throw the attack. “Serpents often get Artinian-style names based on the types of magic they’re born with, like ‘mizu’ meaning water. Satsu is, uh, I’m not a language expert, but…”

“Spit it out.”

“Something like…uh, killing? Or…murder?”

I had to lower my head for a moment, trembling, and then…just started laughing.

Of course she was a murder serpent.

I didn’t even think that was a type of magic, but somehow, sure, that seemed like the type of thing I’d have to deal with for having the audacity to enter a non-lethal challenge for fun.

You know what?I’m absolutely done with being anxious.

I looked up at Satsuki, took a breath, and let go, just for a moment.

Okay, murder serpent. Let’s play.

Across the arena, Satsuki’s gaze met mine. Serpentine eyes blinked…then a smile spread across her face. “Oh, I like your expression. Try not to let it break when your bones do!”

There was no flash of instant movement, nothing like what I was expecting from a Mizuchi-style opponent.

Instead, I simply felt the change — a tingling in my skin and a thumping in my heart as Satsuki unslung the polearm from her shoulder and narrowed her eyes.

I smelled it, too. Tasted it. The coppery tang of freshly- spilled blood.

From the gasp behind me, Patrick must have also sensed it. This wasn’t a hallucination, not a product of fear.

As Satsuki began to slowly walk across the stage, looking almost cheerful, the sensation intensified so rapidly that I barely managed to keep my grip on my sword.

This is…My mind flashed to Keras and that strange sensation like blades were against my skin. The feeling was different, but…the overwhelming presence was something similar.

I didn’t know what I was dealing with, but if it was messing with my mind, I knew how to deal with that.

Focus.

Mental mana surged through me, much like when I’d countered Mizuchi’s control. The sensation didn’t fade, but I felt my concentration return.

I couldn’t take my eyes off Satsuki to help Patrick as he stumbled backward, so I simply flicked a hand backward and flung a mana thread at him. When I felt it connect, I channeled mental mana into him as well.

“Oh?” Satsuki walked closer, bending forward to look at us more closely. “Still standing? That’s surprising for someone of your level.”

“We haven’t even started yet.”

A thin layer of ice flowed across my entire right arm, but the cold was soothing, rather than physically numbing.

A smaller manifestation of the ice armor that the previous wielder used against Mizuchi, I realized. Is Selys- Lyann recognizing how much danger I’m in? Or perhaps that I’m fighting one of Mizuchi’s family?I didn’t know. But what I did know was that I wasn’t going to go down without even taking a swing at my opponent.

Detect Aura.

Three flickering auras flickered around Satsuki, each a different color — yellow, red, and finally blue.

If I hadn’t fought Mizuchi twice, I might have assumed that these were three attunement shroud colors…and maybe they were. But the order they were wrapped around her wasn’t quite right for making them sequential in power and the shades looked more like…Elemental shrouds.

And with that, I had the beginnings of a plan.

…But no way to explain it to my partner without our opponent hearing us.

I just had to hope that I could communicate my intention to Patrick somehow without letting her in on it.

Maybe…“Yellow, red, blue. Teft’s first rule.” Then I lunged.

Jump.

I had precious little mana left to work with. I’d already been low when I’d started the match and the sudden infusion of mental mana had drained my reserves further. If we wanted to win — and I wanted to win — we’d have to end the match fast.

Satsuki casually swept her glaive downward and batted my swing out of the way, just as I’d expected. What I hadn’t expected was the sheer force of the impact, which sent me flying back so fast that I had to jam Selys-Lyann into the ground to avoid being shot out of the arena. My sword bit into the stage and dragged almost a foot before I stopped. When I dislodged the weapon, I realized the icy armor around my right arm was cracked and splintered. If I hadn’tbeen protected by it, the simple clash of our weapons might have broken my arm.

…But the exchange wasn’t entirely one-sided. Frost had attacked her glaive, spreading far more rapidly across the surface than I’d seen Selys-Lyann manage in the past. Satsuki slammed the weapon into the stage, causing the entire arena to tremble and nearly knocking me off my feet. Splinters of ice broke free from the glaive, but others continued to cling and spread…and the bits of ice that had torn free began to grow and stretch toward her.

Satsuki hissed, jumping backward as the frost spread. The distraction cost her. Patrick released a blast of lightning into the air, which split apart into a half-circle of bolts that curved inward and downward to assault Satsuki from several sides at once.

She batted several bolts out of the air as she recovered, but as Patrick shifted his hand, a single bolt slipped beneath her hand and cracked into the outermost of layer of her shroud—And bounced right off harmlessly. She smiled.

I smiled, too. I’d guessed right.

Teft’s first rule — like deflects like, opposites nullify.

Her yellow shroud wasn’t Citrine — it was lightning. Her shroud worked liked Mizuchi’s did.

And that meant we could beat her.

“Fire next! Mana mix!” I yelled to Patrick.

I swung Selys-Lyann, sending a wave of ice at Satsuki’s legs. She didn’t jump like I’d expected — instead, she shoved the butt of her glaive into the ground and vaulted over the ice, then flipped the glaive over her head while she was airborne.

Airborne attacks were intimidating, but as Keras had pointed out, they offered little room for maneuvering. She was no doubt ready for me to dodge or counter with Selys- Lyann, but I wasn’t planning to do either.

Accelerated Computation.

Impact in 0.58 seconds. Adjust left.

Satsuki’s swing came down with shattering force, but I simply leaned to the side, allowing the blade to pass within a fraction of an inch of my chest. Her glaive went straight through the stage, cutting through protective mana and wood without the slightest difficulty — and getting stuck, just for a moment, as my ice rushed inward and grabbed the weapon’s blade.

As she pulled upward, I struck with my other sword.

I didn’t have anything like an opposite to lightning mana. Sand mana wasn’t exactly common, nor did I have a good way to quickly approximate it by mixing similar mana types.

Fortunately, there was a lesser-known rule that was equally useful:Void beats shrouds.

Satsuki saw the attack coming and pulled back with terrible speed, but as she ripped her glaive free from the frost, I nicked her outermost aura — and it distorted and ripped on contact with the inky blackness of my blade.

She hissed and leapt backward, then opened her mouth and roared, flames surging through her jaws.

I slammed Selys-Lyann into the ground and formed a wall of ice, but she wasn’t aiming at me — she exhaled her breath straight at her own weapon, blasting the ice that had been spreading across it away.

As she swatted another of Patrick’s lightning bolts out of the air, she growled at me, smoke still rising from her jaws. “You’re annoying.”

“My sister says the same thing.” I raised both swords, trying to look more confident than I felt.

As Satsuki had exhaled her burning breath, her red aura had weakened…but it hadn’t vanished as I’d hoped it would.

…And I could already see her first shroud beginning to re- form. It wasn’t likely to stop an attack immediately, butwe’d need to move fast if we wanted to strike before it reasserted itself.

Satsuki cracked her neck and shifted back into a defensive stance, one foot forward in front of the other with the glaive held in front of her, watching me more warily now.

Given her speed, I didn’t have any chance of hitting her with ice while she was watching for it. She knew my weapon and she was prepared for it now….which was unfortunate, since it was the single best counter I had to a fire-based aura. Patrick didn’t have ice magic, so he didn’t have a counter available.

…But together, maybe, if we timed it perfectly… “Flank!” I yelled, rushing to the right.

Patrick rushed the opposite direction, trying to get behind Satsuki, then hurled another blast of lightning upward, which spread out as before.

Satsuki growled, spinning in a circle and rapidly dispersing each and every bolt of lightning with a series of precise swings. She batted the very last lightning bolt straight at me with a sudden flash of her glaive, sending it hurtling toward me—But I’d helped build Bright Reflection. Deflected projectiles were nothing new.

Incoming projectile impact in 0.21 seconds, my Accelerated Computation informed me.

I side-stepped easily, then swept Selys-Lyann repeatedly in reprisal, sending wave-after-wave of ice in her direction.

“Too predictable!” She dodged the waves of ice easily, then raised her glaive, which began to glow bright crimson. That was never a good sign, but I didn’t focus on avoiding whatever horrifying attack was incoming.

Instead, I abandoned subtlety and yelled to Patrick. “Use splash attack, now!”

Satsuki’s expression shifted to one of surprise as she processed, then spun, but just a moment too late.

Patrick hurled a fireball straight into the huge patch of ice that was forming from my missed attacks, sending a blast of water erupting across the stage as the fire melted my ice.

And, just as I’d hoped, thousands of droplets of water were a lot harder to dodge than crescents of frost. Especially at near point-blank range.

Steam rose as droplets splashed against Satsuki’s already-weakened crimson aura, diminishing it further.

Yes! Almost there!As she processed the attack, I charged at her from behind—I never got anywhere close.

Satsuki turned around, simply pointing a hand in my direction, and agony surged through the center of my chest. I didn’t have a chance to take a swing before my knees hit the ground, the sudden pain overwhelming me. My void sword	slipped	from	my	grip,	but	Selys-Lyann	remainedfrozen to my right hand.

“Clever boy. Flexible, creative.” She stepped toward me, casually deflecting a panicked bolt of lightning from Patrick without even looking at him. “But don’t you think you’re a little too weak to be trying to fight me?”

I coughed, instinctively reaching upward to put my free hand on my chest.

Over my heart. Had it…stopped? Was I…dying?I didn’t have time to wonder how she’d bypassed my shrouds and shield sigils, I just panicked and punched myself in the chest with as much life mana as I could possibly manage.

Not a single thing changed.

Then Satsuki was in front of me, kneeling down and putting her free hand around my throat. “You were fun, for a little while.”

Her fingertips shifted into claws, digging into my neck.

“Corin! No!” Patrick pointed Bright Reflection at Satsuki. Light flared from the sword’s tip, growing brighter and brighter until a colossal wave of incendiary incandescence flashed from the sword, blindingly bright and wide as a pillar.

Satsuki slammed her glaive into it with a single hand, sending the burst of light flashing right back toward Patrick. It hit him hard enough to send him staggering straight into the barrier wall, his shields shattering.

He collapsed to the ground, barely moving. “Lights out, fake Dawnbringer.”

Satsuki’s eyes turned crimson. As she smiled, spikes of crimson fluid shot up from the stage and slammed into Patrick’s fallen form.

He vanished from the arena, then Satsuki turned straight back to me, her clawed hand still drawing blood from my throat.

“Any last words before I tighten my grip?”

“Sure,” I coughed, staring straight into her bloodstained gaze. “You’re in my grip, too. Return.”

And with that, I teleported us both out of the ring.

***There was something to be said for the utterly baffled expression on Satsuki’s face as we appeared outside the ring, right inside the medical recovery room where I’d set my anchor.

For a moment, she simply continued staring straight at me, her jaw slack.

“…A ring out? Seriously?”

Then she hurled me backward against the floor. Not hard, mind you, but enough that I felt the impact.

When she stomped the floor with an audible crack as I scuttled backward, I recognized her movement as something less than murderous, but equally familiar—She was pouting.

“S…sorry?” I coughed, only belatedly realizing that the pressure in my chest was gone.

Satsuki’s hands tightened around her glaive, then she shuddered, closed her eyes…and a thin smile spread across her lips.

“No, no…” Then her eyes fluttered back open and they’d returned to normal. Or, what passed for normal for a murder serpent, anyway. “No! You’re wonderful! Absolutely wonderful!” She moved forward in a blur, showing speed she’d never approached in the arena, then plopped down on the floor in front of where I was reeling. “That was even better than I’d hoped for! Can we go again?”

“…Again?” I pulled away on instinct, then froze in place as I noticed the dangerous intensity in her expression. “Uh, maybe sometime? I’m, um, out of mana.”

“Oh, oh! Of course! Human mana pools are so tiny. You need to rest! But later, maybe we can—”

“That’s quite enough, Satsuki. You’re scaring the medics again.”

Elora Theas had appeared right behind me, presumably with one of her own teleportation spells. I hadn’t noticed her— nor had I really even noticed the medics, who were, in fact, hiding in terror in the far corners of the recovery room.

“Oh, sorry, sorry! I’ll, uh, cut down the killing intent like you taught me.” She closed her eyes so tightly that I saw creases on her forehead — and just like that, the strange goosebumps-inducing feeling that I’d sensed since she’d gotten close to me began to lessen.

Not go away, but lessen.

Elora nodded in approval. “Good. Now, good work in that match, both of you. The crowd loved it.”

I wasn’t sure I currently was in any condition to care about the crowd — my every instinct was still telling me that I could be killed in the next instant.

And I had an even greater concern. “Patrick,” I managed. “Where—”

“Medical room 4,” Elora told me. “He’s fine, just shaken.” She shook her head. “Shouldn’t have used such a powerful attack if he couldn’t block it properly.”

I glowered at her. “Satsuki was killing me. Of course he used a powerful attack!”

“I was not!” Satsuki opened an eye and wrinkled her nose at me. “If I was killing you, you’d be dead!”

…That was kind of hard to argue with. Thinking about it, if she’d actually wanted to kill me, based on the amount of force she’d managed when our weapons first clashed…She could have crushed my throat like a grape.

“Well, you certainly looked like you were going to kill me.”

“Oh, I did?” Satsuki straightened up a little, seeming to… preen, maybe…at my comment. “Thank you so much!”

I had no idea what to say to that.

“Now, Satsuki, I think you’ve taken up enough of Master Cadence’s time, and the medics need to work. Can you find your way back to the stands on your own?”

“Ugh, I was just chatting. But fine!” Satsuki pushed herself to her feet with a huff, then started to march to the door. Then, something strange passed across her face as she opened the door and turned back to me. “…I had fun.”

She left before I said another word, which was probably for the best.

***As Satsuki left, the medics finally went to work on assessing my injuries. They were mostly minor, but my throat was still bleeding. Satsuki’s claws hadn’t pierced deeply, but they’d cut enough that the regeneration effect from my sigil hadn’t fixed it yet. I didn’t think I was in danger, but I didn’t mind getting some direct treatment.

Belatedly, I wished my armor had included a gorget to cover my throat. Sadly, the metallic shirt ended right at my neck-line.

I took the next few minutes to just sort of stare blankly at a wall while the medics worked. I was vaguely aware of Elora Theas still waiting in the room and watching. It was only after my treatment concluded that she dismissed the medics	—	something	I	wasn’t	really	sure	she	had	the authority to do — and came to sit in a chair across from me. “Your performance was excellent. I don’t suppose you’d humor us with another match in a few weeks? I haven’tseen Satsuki or the crowd that excited in months.”

I narrowed my eyes. “Are you kidding me? You set me up against someone like her? You know what I went through with Mizuchi last year.”

Elora blinked. “Yes, of course I do. Surviving against Mizuchi not once, but twice? That makes you a very rare case. It’s part of why I set you up against Satsuki — I knew you could handle fighting a serpent, and that you’d make it interesting. You proved me more than right.”

“But…she…”

I stopped myself.

Did Elora just…not realize that fighting Mizuchi had been a traumatic experience?Was she…so disconnected as to think of this as all being just…normal?“She seemed like she wanted to kill me,” I managed, belatedly.

Elora snorted. “It’s called showmanship, Corin. Come, now. You managed quite a bit of that yourself — your performance was exemplary. I’ll admit that I thought that pitting you up against Satsuki might have been excessive — she’s very young, and not as good at holding back as Vanniv is — but in spite of her misbehavior, you still managed to catch her off-guard. That ending…that was pure artistry, Corin. If you think you could repeat that kind of performance, you could make a lot of money here.”

My mouth opened, then closed again.

The truth was… as terrifying as the experience had been…as stressful as it had been to see someone who reminded me of Mizuchi…I’d had fun.

Not just in the beginning. Even when I’d fought Satsuki, and I’d felt like my life might be on the line—I’d been terrified, but…I’d enjoyed that, too. “I’ll…consider it.”

Elora smiled. “Good.”

***I spent some more time in the recovery room, but Elora left relatively quickly after that exchange.

I did get in one last important question, though.

“Why would you contract someone like Satsuki after what happened last year at the Winter Ball?”

Elora had simply stared at me. “Do you think all serpents are aligned toward the same cause? They’re completely different. Besides, Satsuki needs more experience with people around her age, otherwise she’s going to end up getting expelled.”

“…Expelled?”

“Oh, didn’t I mention?” Elora blinked. “You may want to keep an eye out for her on the campus. She liked you, after all, and she could use friends.”

I had no idea what to say to that, so I just kind of stammered in horror as Elora said her goodbyes and headed out of the room.

After that, I simply read in the recovery room until the medics returned, then following that, I was greeted by the onrush of Patrick, Sera, and Mara as they were finally let in to see me.

After confirming that I was alive and well, we discussed the match. There was a general agreement that we’d done an amazing job in the arena, but I couldn’t help the feeling that my match with Satsuki wasn’t truly over. With the lookshe’d worn when she’d left the room…I had a feeling it was only just beginning.

