CHAPTER VII – NEW CLASSES

The first class of the day was Physical Training, which was exactly what it sounded like. Our first day was mostly focused on assessing our existing physical conditioning, after which we were slotted into various different groups in similar shape.

After that, it was basic stuff designed to get us into shape (or keep us there). Running laps around the field, pushups, that sort of thing. I noted a couple different obstacle courses, but we didn’t make use of them right away. Similarly, there would be some degree of physical combat training later on in the class, but we didn’t do any on the first day.

That was easy enough, but boring. The more interesting class was Attunement Optimization.

To my disappointment, Meltlake herself wasn’t teaching the class. As the new chancellor, I wasn’t sure if she’d be teaching anything at all, but I somehow had it in my head that maybe she’d send simulacra out to teach courses. That was probably a colossally inefficient use of mana, but I think a part of me was just hoping that I’d get my lessons from someone I knew and trusted. I still wasn’t exactly great at dealing with new people.

Such a great choice for an Arbiter.

I sighed to myself. Maybe I’d get used to the idea of having a diplomatic role, maybe I wouldn’t. Either way, I’d try to give the new professor a chance.

Professor Saito set himself apart from my other teachers immediately in a few ways. First, he was extraordinarily young looking: I guessed he was probably only a couple years older than the students. Next, his complexion and epicanthic folds told me that he was probably of Dalenos heritage. There were other teachers of Dalenos heritage at the school, but not a lot of them. Finally, he was casuallydressed, which helped cement my idea of him as being “younger” than normal.

“Good morning.” The professor pushed up his glasses with a single finger, examining the classroom. “I hope none of you are Wydd worshippers. In this class, knowledge is never forbidden.”

I heard a few gasps. That was almost blasphemy. I liked him immediately.

“For those of you who didn’t hear the opening ceremony, we’re going to be breaking a few rules — spoken and unspoken — by having this class at all. For centuries, noble houses descended from the original families that settled in Valia have hoarded significant knowledge about how the human body works. This knowledge has allowed them to retain a competitive advantage in advancing their attunements more rapidly than your average citizen.”

He paused, then immediately addressed the first unspoken question that had come to my mind. “Many scholars have independently discovered elements of these secrets, and some of these advantages are now publicly known, if not necessarily publicly accessible. Enhancement elixirs, for example, are well-known, but generally too expensive for the average citizen to afford. Similarly, some of you may have already learned that living in areas with higher mana saturation offers competitive advantages, especially at and beyond the Sunstone Wall. Properties in these locations are, predictably, generally expensive and controlled by the ruling class.”

I heard a few more uncomfortable groans. This was nothing new to me, but I was eager to hear about what he was leading up to.

“In this class, we’ll discuss those more broadly known advantages, but we’ll also talk about some that have — until now — been generally well-hidden from outsiders. Many of these secrets will remain impractical due to resource monopolies, but others can be utilized by anyone. It is thechancellor’s hope that you will be able to utilize these techniques to advance more rapidly than any previous generation of students.”

More murmurs, but on the happier side. No students standing to ask questions yet, but I could see a few people moving around nervously in their chairs.

Were there any people from those wealthy noble families in my class? I couldn’t tell at a glance. Sera probably could have, but while we were both taking the course, hers was slotted at a different time period.

At this point, Professor Saito moved to the chalkboard at the back of the classroom. He quickly sketched out a rough outline of a human body and then made three circles within it: two in the torso, one in the head.

“Can anyone tell me what these locations are?”

An unfamiliar student with strange, iron-grey hair stood up. The moment my eyes focused on him, I felt something strange. No, Sera, not love at first sight. I felt something familiar, like I was in the presence of someone or something that had been near me for a long time, but without my noticing it.

I can’t explain it better than that. I couldn’t really understand it at the time. Whatever the sensation was, it drew my immediate focus. I noted the complete lack of stubble on his face, the way he’d chosen to sit in the chair closest to the back door, the way his grease-smeared glasses seemed to emphasize the grey in his eyes. Grey eyes weren’t that strange, but…his looked lustrous enough that they almost struck me as metallic. His hair, too. A trick of the light, maybe, or something else? I wasn’t sure.

Maybe it was the way he stood like he had a sword on his left hip, even though no such sword was visible.

I didn’t think I’d seen him before, but that wasn’t all that surprising in itself. I honestly didn’t pay that much attention to the majority of students and there were plenty I’d neverencountered. He also could have been a foreign transfer student: we had a lot of those over the years.

But even being a foreigner didn’t explain how…off…he felt to me.

“Uh, hi.” He gave an adorable nervous chuckle, then reached up and adjusted his glasses in a way that didn’t strictly seem necessary. “They, uh, they’re three valid mark locations. Specifically, the originals.”

The professor gave the strange student a surprised look. “You’re correct. I’m honestly impressed. Are you from one of the founding families?”

“Oh, nonono. Nothing like that.” He laughed again. “I, uh, shouldn’t have said anything. Please forget me forever. Thanks.” Then he sat back down.

I would very definitely not be granting his request.

Professor Saito raised both eyebrows, then shook his head. “Well, the assessment you gave was right. It’s rarely discussed, but these three points were the original three locations for attunements. There’s a reason for this. Does anyone know what it is?”

The odd iron-haired student shifted awkwardly in his seat. He knew the answer, but he didn’t stand again.

Another student stood up, this time a brown-haired girl wearing the distinctive uniform of a third-year student. She wore distinctive red ribbons in her hair that contrasted with her bright blue earrings. “Well, if the goal is to give away every secret of the founders to the rabble, I suppose I should be first in line to throw out my inheritance. They’re Dianis Points.”

I blinked. Dianis Points?I got my answer quickly enough. “You’re right, Miss Theas. Would you like to explain what Dianis Points are?”

“They’re the parts of the body that regulate mana. The ones we’re born with.”

The teacher nodded. “Right, for the most part. It would be more accurate to say they’re parts of the body and spirit,since they exist in both your physical organs and your spiritual form.”

The student — apparently a member of House Theas — bristled. “Naturally. I thought that was clear enough from implication. Obviously mana regulation couldn’t be purely physical.”

“Perhaps with your level of education, that much is obvious. Please understand that you’ve benefitted from a—” “Yes, yes.” Theas rolled her eyes. “I understand my advantages well enough to know that you’re trying to takethem away.”

Professor Saito stared at her. “If you have a problem with the headmaster’s plan, I suggest you file a complaint. For the moment, you may sit back down.”

Theas met his eyes for just a moment, then grumbled something inaudible and sat back down.

Professor Saito turned back to the board, pointing toward the three symbols with his piece of chalk. “As Miss Theas mentioned, these Dianis Points exist to regulate mana within the body. The original attunements were designed for the three points that were considered to be the most critical. Later generations of attunements were designed to integrate with the remaining Dianis Points, which are located in the hands and feet.”

The professor drew four more circles: one in each hand, one in each foot. “Early attunements had significant issues with their power interfering with each other. These second- generation attunements helped to correct a major issue with the initial set: they allowed for multiple attunements on the same person without sacrificing safety. Later-generation attunements, such as our own, are better at safely containing their power without bleeding into other nearby attunements and items, but still imperfect. This, in combination with other improvements, has allowed for attunements to be placed on body locations that are not directly on top of Dianis Points. This does not mean they aretruly self-contained; an attunement on the right shoulder is still connected to the Dianis Point on the right hand, for example. And Dianis Points ultimately remain one of the two primary mechanisms for determining how much mana your body is capable of handling.”

One of the two? I wondered.

He didn’t address the obvious question immediately. “It’s likely that any of you who spent your first year here have heard the term ‘safe mana capacity’. Most students I’ve spoken to believe that this refers to how much mana the body can hold, like the size of a container. This visual is reinforced by the depiction of a shroud as pouring out excess mana. The terminology used makes this sound analogous to the capacity rune on a magical item.”

Professor Saito drew a simple grey mana capacity rune on the board, then crossed it out. “This is wrong. The body is not like an item that will simply explode when overfilled with mana — well, it is, but that would require a truly absurd amount. Rather than a risk of bursting, safe mana capacity refers to the amount a body can safely process. A body containing five times the safe capacity will not explode. Rather, the excessive mana acts more like poison. You can think of it as similar to drinking alcohol: your organs can process a limited amount safely in a set time frame, and beyond that point, your body can suffer short-term or long- term harm.”

I nodded along with much of the class. I hadn’t heard this exact comparison, but it wasn’t a surprise. I’d studied a fair bit about how safe mana worked after what happened with Sera.

“A factor that is glossed over in most lessons is where this damage occurs and why. The primary points of concern are these specific locations,” he pointed at the three original Dianis Points, “and, more broadly, the other primary mana regulation structures in the body.”

With that, he began to draw a series of chalk lines between the various Dianis Points in the body, then more lines that simply snaked around throughout the body as a whole.

“These,” he gestured at his squiggles, “are Ta’thyriel Veins, or in more common nomenclature, Star Veins. Dianis Points are the physical and spiritual locales where your mana is collected, processed and distributed. Star Veins are the passages through which your mana flows within the body. When your body has an unsafe amount of mana in it, your Dianis Points are incapable of processing it quickly enough, leaving unprocessed mana to flow out of them and into your Star Veins. This harms your body for two reasons. One, the unprocessed mana has a composition that is not safe for your body. Two, your Star Veins are only capable of handling a certain amount of mana, and any amount exceeding that can cause your veins to burn or burst. Can anyone tell me what the result of this is?”

Most students seemed hesitant, save for the iron-haired one and the Theas, who were both resisting their own urges to stand and speak.

So, I stood up and gave a simple answer, one that was all-too-familiar now. I felt my hands unconsciously clench as I spoke two simple words. “Mana scarring.”

“Correct.” Professor Saito nodded. I sat back down.

If the professor noted my tension, he said nothing. He simply pointed back to the veins on the board. “Mana scarring is the bane of advancement. Our attunements are carefully designed to prevent it from occurring simply from the body absorbing too much ambient mana, but unfortunately, they cannot account for another element of how our Star Veins work. Much like muscles, Star Veins and Dianis Points can be worn out from repeated use. If someone can do at most a hundred push-ups, they might be able to do a few sets of that in a day with ample restbetween them — but trying to do too many sets would cause more harm than good. Dianis Points and Star Veins are the same way. Even if you have refilled the mana in your body — say, with a mana potion — using your full mana capacity twice in a row risks straining your Star Veins. And doing it repeatedly has a high risk of permanent harm.”

Somehow, I felt like he was talking directly to me when he said that. I winced, thinking back to my experience with making the bracers and being unable to feel my hand the next day.

…I wished I’d learned this particular lesson a little sooner. How close had I come to causing myself permanent harm with that mistake?And…was this why I’d come so close to giving myself mana scarring during my childhood training? I’d known that I’d come close to getting scars from using my dueling cane with my father, but I hadn’t really understood the mechanisms behind it.

Well, this explains a great deal…assuming it’s accurate.

I still had reasons to doubt basically anything in Lorian Height’s education process, even if this new course was designed to clear up misconceptions and spread information that had been previously private. Even House Hartigan’s information wasn’t perfect — and every teacher was going to have their own interpretation of a lesson plan. I’d have to retain a healthy dose of skepticism and do my own research later.

The professor continued discussing mana scarring for a bit, but it was just going over things I already knew. I started paying attention again when he mentioned a subject that I was much more interested in.

“So, now that you’re aware of the existence of Dianis Points and Star Veins, you’re probably wondering how this is relevant to improving your attunement power. It’s very simple, actually.”

I listened closely.

The professor turned back to the board, then filled in each of the circles he’d drawn and began to widen the Star Veins. “Dianis Points and Star Veins are the limiting factors on your body’s mana tolerance. Attunements detect these factors to determine your safe mana capacity. As you exercise, your Dianis Points and Star Veins grow stronger, improving your mana tolerance, and thus improving your safe mana capacity value. Similarly, every activity you do that is well-known to improve your mana capacity is also improving either your Dianis Points, your Star Veins, or both. Knowing that strengthening these locations should be your target, however, you can now take additional steps toward improvement.”

Ideas began to play through my mind immediately.

Could I improve my Dianis Points somehow? Make more Dianis Points? What about Star Veins? Could they be strengthened with magic? Assisted with magic items? Could I make more of them artificially?’The professor didn’t go into all of that immediately, but he did provide the most basic answer we needed. “There are dozens of known ways to improve your Dianis Points and Star Veins, above and beyond simple things like using your mana and living in high-saturation locations. In this class, we will go over several of them. To begin with, I will teach you the simplest exercise for improving them. One that many founding families are taught as soon as they receive their attunement.”

Theas notably tensed, but said nothing.

“First, close your eyes. Picture your mana, as if you plan to cast a spell.”

I followed his instructions.

“Now, picture a harmless spell. Begin converting your mana for the spell, as if you were planning to cast it.”

Easy enough. This was basic spellcasting stuff. We all had to be able to convert our mana in order to cast any non-grey spell.

“Next, pass the mana into another part of your body. For example, if your mark is on your right hand, pass it to the left, as if you were planning to cast the spell with your other hand.”

Again, trivial stuff. I did exactly what he described. “Good. Hold that mana.” The teacher went silent for afew moments, giving me an awkward feeling. Holding mana without using it wasn’t particularly hard, especially for a short time. It was much like holding your breath: a few seconds was easy, but it was going to get awkward in a minute or so.

Fortunately, he didn’t ask us to wait that long. “Now, do not cast the spell. Instead, simply allow the mana to dissipate back into your body.”

This was easy enough, just a bit surprising. Releasing mana without using it was simple and intuitive, much like simply taking a breath after holding it. It was possible to make a mistake and discharge mana by mistake, but that didn’t happen to anyone in the class. We’d all cast enough spells during the first year that simply cancelling a spell in progress was easy.

“Excellent. You’ve just completed your first exercise. You may open your eyes.”

I opened my eyes, then blinked. That was it?Professor Saito smiled knowingly. “I know you’re probably thinking that it doesn’t seem like much of an exercise. That’s the point: it’s simple and repeatable under virtually any circumstance. This is called a ‘Draw and Release’ exercise. It trains your body much like casting a spell does, but without the actual release of the mana from the body, it puts somewhat less strain on your Dianis Points and Star Veins than true spell casting does. For those of you who already train nearly to your limits, this exercise will offer minimal value. But for students who do not have the time or energy to train extensively, or who live in low-mana locales, this can provide a tremendous benefit.”

I could immediately see the applications. I pushed my body hard on most days, but for things like the train ride, I wasn’t getting enough mana recovery to push my body properly.

If I had known this exercise while heading to Caelford, I could have used it on the train and presumably maintained something closer to my typical rate of mana growth throughout the whole vacation.

Just a few weeks of losing progress had been noticeable to me. If I lived in a location with too little mana to train for years, this type of exercise would be crucial.

…And just like that, I understood why people like our Theas student objected to the lesson.

Our teacher had just given everyone a trivial method for passing the infamous Sunstone Wall.

And this was just the first day of class.

The lesson continued, but most of the remainder was just reinforcing what I’d already learned. By the end of the class, I saw a number of emotions on the faces of the students. Many were dazed by the implications. Some were absolutely gleeful, and from their movements, I could see that they were already practicing their Draw and Release.

…Predictably, Miss Theas was less pleased, and she wasn’t the only one. I saw her clustering together with a few others that I assumed were of a similar social class. They shot hard looks at Professor Saito as they exited the room.

And as for that strange, iron-haired student?By the time I thought to look for him, he was already gone.

That, it seemed, was a mystery I’d have to investigate another day.

***I sat down for my Intermediate Enchanting class. My teacher, Professor Wydran, was a spectacled woman that looked to be in her mid-twenties to early thirties. She wore an  all-black  uniform,  similar  to  those  of  the  third-yearstudents, but with different epaulets on her shoulders and a strange badge on her chest. I wasn’t sure what the uniform or badge signified, other than that it was probably some sort of military affiliation. Based on her name and my luck, I immediately assumed she was probably Wydd themselves in the guise of a teacher, but I hoped I’d be wrong.

“Welcome to your second year. I’d like to get started right away with a basic assessment. How many of you have already made a permanent magical item?”

There were some gulps from the class. I was surprised to see less than half of us standing up in response to the question.

To some degree, it made sense: my basic class hadn’t covered much about permanent items. I’d learned all that from Vellum’s class, which had been an elective.

But somehow, seeing all those nervous, sitting students…it was bizarre. How could they have gotten this far without doing something that felt so very basic?I had to acknowledge my biases: by the standards of other nations, my own education was probably laughable for my age. I’d just been behind the curve compared to my peers for so long that it felt bizarre to finally feel like I was ahead of, or at least on par with, the top half of the student base.

“If you have an item you’ve created with you, please place it on the desk in front of you. I consider demonstrations more practical for teaching than just sitting around talking theory. I’ll be coming around to inspect each of the items, then we’ll discuss how they were created, as well as my observations.”

I felt a pang of nervousness.

What should I show? Am I going to be graded on this?Will she scoff at me for something too simple?Fortunately, I wasn’t at the front of the line. I’d taken a seat near the middle of the class.

Professor Wydran walked up to the first row, approaching one of the students and accepting an offered item. “A dueling cane.” She turned the cane over in her hands. “A standard model, but fine craftsmanship. What do you think you could do differently?”

“I, um…” The student stammered. “I could use higher- level runes, once my mana gets high enough?”

I blinked. I knew they’d been put on the spot, but…was that it?“That’s correct,” the teacher replied. “…If a bit straightforward. Consider, for example, that you could also change the activation type to prevent it from requiring the user’s mana.”

“But…then where would it get mana from?”

Professor Wydran smiled. “You’d also have to set up recharge runes to allow it to refill automatically.”

This…this was so… Elementary.

I kind of stared blankly while the teacher explained more options on how to improve the dueling cane. While she was talking, I thought of numerous other options. Different elemental types. Perception-based runes for homing attacks. Wide area burst functions. Anti-tampering.

None of that was mentioned. Just…basics. I felt strangely out-of-place.

The teacher walked up to the next student after a bit, inspecting their offering. “Excellent work. A higher-capacity shield sigil. What can you tell me about this?”

This was better, but…it was also very similar to what I’d made for Jin around, say, week nine or so of the first year.

As the teacher went down the line, virtually every student’s offerings were similar. A few slight improvements to a basic design, if that. I felt almost tangible relief when someone had managed to make a working return bell, which made most of the class gasp in awe.

I stood in silent horror as the teacher approached me and accepted my offering: my own shield sigil.

“Ah, an improved shield sigil with…what is this?” She stared for a moment, then frowned. “Oh, health regeneration. That’s very advanced, and possibly dangerous. For that sort of thing, you’d need,” she smiled, “there it is. A purification rune for the life mana. Excellent work.”

I may have blushed.

“But this…wait. Is this a mana regeneration function?” Suddenly,  there  were  a  lot  of  eyes  on  me.  “Y-yes,professor.”

“Hm. That’s not generally safe to include, due to the potential for toxicity when exposed to the mana of others. Now, at Citrine-level and higher, Enchanters can purify their mana to prevent that problem. Oh, I suppose it may be safe if you made the item yourself, and the mana has your signature…but you must have had help with this.”

“I…” I withered under the stare of the professor and other students. “…Not for this one?” After a pause, I hastily added, “I copied the regeneration design from an item a teacher loaned me.”

“But you built it on your own?” The teacher frowned. “Was this a project for your winter break?”

“Not…exactly.”

“How long did it take, then?”

I sincerely considered lying. “…A few hours, maybe?”

I was telling the truth. This was probably a mistake, given that virtually no one believed me.

Professor Wydran didn’t dismiss me out-of-hand, though. “Show me. This class is two hours. Can you finish one set of the runes by then?”

I frowned. “I don’t have any spare items to enchant with enough capacity.”

“I have blank sigils here. If I provide that, as well as crystals, could you reproduce any portion of this on yourown?”

I paused, considered, then said, “I don’t need the crystals.”

She nodded once, handed me a blank shield sigil — solid silver, fortunately — and said, “I’m going to keep going through the rest of the students. Get to work. We’ll talk after class.”

***Two hours later, the class was finished. Many of the students filed out.

A	few	others	waited,	unfortunately.	It	seemed	they wanted to watch the results.

I handed the sigil to the teacher. The finished sigil. “This…this isn’t the one that you showed me earlier?”

I shook my head. “No. That’s here.” I showed her the original. “I just barely finished it.”

She turned it over in her hands, frowning. “…How?” I blinked. “I had some extra materials in my bag.”

That was technically true, but I barely used any of them.

I had, however, drained my mana almost completely dry from both of my attunements, used the stored mana in my original sigil, waited an hour to rest, then did the rest.

That was the most mana I’d used consecutively in a while, but not enough to hurt myself like I had when I’d first built the mana regeneration bracers.

And, notably, it also hadn’t really pushed my resources very far.

I still had the mana batteries in the Jaden Box, but I hadn’t wanted to pull them out in the class.

I also could have easily syphoned off more mana from some of my items, if I’d needed to.

…All in all, it wasn’t even really a challenge. But I didn’t say that. I couldn’t say that.

I could feel the gaze of the remaining students in the class weighing more heavily on me with every passing moment.

“I’ll need to check the enchantment quality.” The teacher said, tucking the newly-made sigil away. “We’ll discuss this further at our next class. Arrive fifteen minutes early.”

I gulped. “Yes, Professor.”

***With my classes finished, I was free for the day. Most of the students with open schedules were probably going off to socialize with friends they hadn’t seen in weeks.

…I didn’t really have anyone like that. I’d been with my few friends more or less constantly, and I’d see them again when I got back home. Honestly, as much as I appreciated them, I could have used a bit more privacy.

I contemplated going to hide in my dorm room for a little while, just to avoid being around people. Ultimately, though, that felt like too much of a waste of time.

Instead, I decided to go do something that regrettably involved people, but more importantly might get me some long-awaited answers.

My steps carried me off the school campus and toward the Serpent Spire. From there, rather than heading to Derek’s new home, I turned toward a more familiar location I hadn’t visited in weeks: The Climber’s Court.

The familiar shop was uncharacteristically empty, with the only other customer being what looked like a student from another university. He was a little on the short side, with his most striking feature being unusual cat-like eyes. That and his gigantic spellbook, which seemed to be made out of some kind of solid crystal…and attempting to eat another book on one of the shelves.

A sentient spellbook?I blinked at that — other magic books were pretty rare, and crystal-forged equipment made me think of Ceris — but the strange student seemed distracted enough with wrestling with his book and I didn’t want to bother him with questions.

The lack of business was a little concerning, but not unexpected. With the spire once again inaccessible, I imagined that there were precious few people who had any need for the kind of supplies sold there. Other students might find climbing items useful for specific tests, but they were more likely to purchase those later on in the school year when we had a better idea of what the exams would entail.

“Well, well. If it isn’t Corin Cadence, my favorite customer!” Lars laughed as he put down the mace he’d been holding, then walked over toward me. “What are we in the market for today?”

I couldn’t help but return his smile, although I wasn’t sure how long either of our expressions would last. “Answers.”

“Oh? Those can be expensive.” He reached up to scratch at his beard. He’d grown it out over the last few weeks of my absence, and I wasn’t quite sure what to think of it. There were only a few streaks of grey, reminding me that Lars still wasn’t excessively old — maybe forty, if even that. I pictured him being older mostly because he’d retired from his climbing days, and I internalized “retired” as “ancient and wizened”.

But I’d pieced together that he’d retired for reasons other than age, and I’d picked up a couple broken pieces of that story during my visit to the Transcendence Gateway Crystal. I wasn’t sure if asking him about that was wise, but as usual, I planned to do the thing regardless of whether or not it was a good idea. I simply didn’t have the ability to resist the siren’s song of knowledge.

The other customer had left, so it was just the two of us. I hesitated for a moment, trying to frame what I wanted to discuss properly. “I visited the Unclaimed Lands over the winter break.”

“Oh? You’re a bit young for that, aren’t you?” He leaned back against the countertop. “I assume you had an escort?”

I shrugged. “Of sorts. Do you know Len Hastings?”

Lars blinked in surprise. “Len? Dyson’s sister?”

It took me a moment to place the name “Dyson”. In the story that Keras had told me on the train, he’d made a deal with the Spirit Gateway Crystal in one of the temples in the Unclaimed Lands to preserve a spiritual copy of Lydia Hastings. That copy was the one who now called herself “Len”, and I belatedly remembered that the Spirit Gateway Crystal had also preserved a copy of Lydia’s brother, Dyson Hastings, to keep her company.

“Yeah. I didn’t meet Dyson, but Len introduced me to Warren Constantine.”

Lars raised both hands in a defensive gesture. “Look, no matter what he thinks, I had nothing to do with stealing the prime crystal.”

I blinked. “…Okay?”

“…That’s not what this is about?” He took a breath, then straightened his collar. “Let’s forget I said anything. What’d the crazy old wizard put you up to, then?”

I had more questions now, but those could wait. “Do you remember the Transcendence Gateway Crystal?”

“As if I could forget.” He laughed. “One of the better ones, if I’m being honest. Why, when I went in there with…” His expression grew darker. “Never mind that. I take it you visited the crystal yourself?”

I slipped off the glove on my left hand to show him the new symbol glowing there.

Lars gave an appreciative whistle. “Didn’t get one myself, but maybe I should have. Had other priorities at the time, but…” He shook his head. “Did you want advice on how to use it?”

“Well, yes, but that’s not the reason I’m here.” I exhaled a breath. “While I was there, I saw a vision.”

Lars folded his arms. “What sort of vision?”

I hesitated. I didn’t know how best to frame the discussion. I knew I’d probably be bringing up a terrible memory, but…I had to know what I was dealing with. “Whenyou first identified Selys-Lyann, you told me a story about Mizuchi killing a former wielder of the sword. But that wasn’t just a story for you, was it? You were there. You saw it happen.”

The shopkeeper shut his eyes. “…No.” “No? But I—”

Lars grunted, reopening his eyes. “No. In two senses.” His shoulders tensed and he took a steadying breath. “The story I told you wasn’t about when we…when we fought Mizuchi. It was earlier. That sword has been wielded against her several times. And, in the end, she always shatters it.”

…That was not a good sign for my future. “But…even if that’s true, you saw it happen, just…”

“I didn’t see it.” He was insistent. “Or, maybe I did.” Lars let out a deep sigh, shaking his head and leaning heavily against the counter. “I don’t remember.”

“You…don’t remember? How could you not…” I frowned. “Was it a Judgment? Or something like one?”

Lars gave me a curt nod. “Best guess is that it was something like that, but I can’t be sure. I…remember being out in the Unclaimed Lands. I was in the expedition, working as the quartermaster. We’d been out there quite a while, focusing on investigating the Seventh Spire.”

“The Seventh Spire…did you find a way in?”

Lars shrugged. “Wish I knew. A group of six of us left camp to do some exploring. Routine stuff. Weren’t headed to the spire, just toward one of the shrines up north, near Lake Selden. Not far from your Transcendence Shrine, in fact, but it wasn’t the same one.”

I nodded in understanding. “And then?”

“And then…I have no idea. I…woke up at camp, in the medical tent, with one of Shimmer’s summons looking over me. She seemed surprised that I’d woken up at all.” Lars winced. “I’d been unconscious in the camp for a week and a half…but I’d been gone for six weeks. All that time…it’s gone. I know I left with five people, but…”

He looked down. “…They found me alone. What was left of me, anyway.”

He lifted up the left leg of his pants. And, for the first time, I understood why he’d stopped fighting.

From the knee down, his leg had been replaced with an elaborate prosthetic. A thing of silvery metal, impressively articulated at the knee and ankle. It was one of the most sophisticated replacement limbs that I’d seen: enough so that I’d barely noticed anything unusual about his gait.

A handful of runes flashed on the surface, but I didn’t get a good look before he pulled the pant leg back down. I did, however, quickly understand the implication. “…That was where your attunement mark was, wasn’t it?”

“The primary one. I was a Citrine, if only briefly, and I’d even crossed blades with Emeralds on a few occasions. I felt invincible.” He gave me a sad laugh. “…But of all the things I lost, the leg wasn’t the most valuable. I just…didn’t know what I had until it was gone. Don’t make the same mistake I did, kid.”

I didn’t know what to say to that.“…I’m sorry to bring back a memory like that.”

“Don’t be.” He shook his head. “When I saw that sword, I knew it was probably going to come up eventually. But this…you said you saw a vision? It was Mizuchi?”

“It was. Definitely.”

He closed his eyes for a moment. “I…see flashes of her, sometimes. But I couldn’t be certain how much of that was just…my mind playing tricks. I…my friend, who had that sword before you did. She…loved those stories. The stories about the former wielders who fought Mizuchi and died.”

Suddenly, I felt very cold. No, not the “my blood ran cold” in a metaphorical sense.

Literal ice was forming at my side, near where my sword was still sheathed.

The moment I noticed it, the ice stopped spreading, and the chill faded.

If Lars noticed anything, he didn’t say. He went quiet, so I asked. “…Who was she?”

He smiled. “A spectacular woman. And one who I’d be more than pleased to tell you about some other time, when the store isn’t open and I have more than a few hard drinks on-hand.”

“Ah. Understood.” I nodded.

“But, kid…do you remember anything else from that vision? What did the place look like?”

I tried to think back, but the memory…it didn’t feel very complete. “It…I think it was probably indoors? Someplace dark. Very dark. But, beyond that…”

“Would you be willing to get a memory crystal made of it?”

I frowned. “Maybe? I’m not sure how easy it would be to target that specific memory.”

“That type of thing is doable, but you’d need an expert.” I nodded. “Is…that really something you’d want to see?” He exhaled a breath, then nodded firmly. “Absolutely.”

Then, after a beat, he added, “I need to know where my friends are buried.”

I paused, then nodded. “…I’ll look into it. But I don’t like the idea of someone rummaging around in my memories if I don’t trust them. It might be a while.”

“Take your time. I know you’ve got your school year to deal with, and you’re going to have a lot of work to do.” Lars gave me a grin. “From what I’ve heard, though, you’re racing ahead of your peers. That isn’t always a good thing. Sometimes it leads you headlong into things you can’t handle. I speak from experience. Just…try not to get too deep into anything beyond your abilities this early in your adventuring career.”

“Is that why you tried to warn me about the sword? To keep me from using it and meeting the same fate that your friends did?”

“Something like that.”

“…And the feather? Would that have really helped with the curse, or was that just to scare me into a particular behavior?”

“Bit of both. Specifically, the feather would have repelled certain types of monsters. It’s a kind of symbol to them.”

“Would it have helped with Mizuchi?”

“No.” He shook his head firmly. “If I knew something that worked against Mizuchi, well, things would have gone very differently. You ever see her, you run. You hear me? No heroics. You run.”

“…Might be a bit late for that.”

“Ah. Right. That incident at the winter ball.” He winced. “I’d like to hope that’s the last we’ll see of her, but that serpent has a habit of turning hope into poison.”

I almost told him about my other encounter with Mizuchi, but I held back. He was obviously harboring old wounds from his own encounter with Mizuchi, and not purely of the physical variety. I didn’t have any desire to tear those wounds open further. “…Thanks for your help, then. And your answers.”

“Course. But if you’d like to repay me…” He jerked a thumb at the display behind him. “I sell only the finest.”

I tried to give him a weak smile. “Let’s see what you’ve got.”

***When I got back home for the evening, I took some time to unwind. By “unwind”, of course, I mean immediately begin my new training exercises.

I didn’t find anything they’d taught in class particularly challenging, which I supposed was probably the point. It was going to take weeks before figuring out if the new exercises translated to measurable progress, especially given that I was already doing things like boosting my mana with my Arbiter attunement, and I didn’t know if these techniques would be redundant with that benefit.

A little later, I went and found Patrick to ask him an important question. I found him eating dinner, so I just sat down across from him at the table. “Hey. So, in class, we learned about things called Star Veins.”

Patrick visibly winced. “…You did, huh?”

“You’re Meltlake’s personal apprentice. She’s been teaching you privately for a while. You already knew about them, didn’t you?” I may have sounded a little more aggressive than I should have.

“I…I’m sorry!” He put down his fork and put up both hands, looking a little panicked. “I should have told you!”

“Woah, woah, no.” I shook my head. “Sorry, wasn’t meaning to imply that at all.”

“Then…you’re not angry?”

I blinked. “What? No. Why would I be angry?” “Because…I’m the one who always says we shouldn’tkeep secrets, and I kept a secret? So, uh, I’m kind of a hypocrite?”

I rubbed my temples. “No, no. Sorry, I started off the wrong way. I’m not angry in the slightest. This is different. If it was a House Hartigan secret that she entrusted you with, it wasn’t your secret to share.”

“I don’t know, Corin. I’m your retainer. Things like this are a big deal.”

“No. Even if I’m not a big supporter of traditional power dynamics, I think a master and apprentice sharing things with each other that they don’t tell the rest of their houses is perfectly reasonable. I mean, I’d like to know any kind of powerful secrets she’s sharing with you — I want to advance as quickly as possible, and Meltlake is an incredible resource for that — but determining what to share is between the two of you.”

“…Oh.” He sighed, his shoulders slumping. “I…wanted to tell you. And we talked about it, but she wasn’t ready to stir up trouble when she first taught me about it. Obviously,that’s changed, and…thanks. I think you were a part of why she made that choice.”

“I’d hope so.” I gave him a small, but genuine smile. “If this brings up the educational standard for Valia as a whole, it may be one of the most important things I do in my life.”

“That’s good, but more than that, I think you helped her. I really, really want to thank you for that. But…”

“But?” I raised an eyebrow.

“But if you weren’t here because you’re angry at me, what did you want to talk about?”

“Oh!” I had, in fact, lost track of why I’d come to talk to him. “Right, right. Why aren’t you advancing faster? Are you hiding your power or something?”

Patrick stared at me for a moment, then laughed. “Oh, Corin. No, no. It’s nothing like that.”

“What, then?”

He picked his fork back up, looking more comfortable. “First off, she didn’t teach me about that secret stuff until around the winter ball, so toward the end of the year. Then, we decided I wouldn’t use it right away.”

“Why? Avoiding suspicion?”

He shook his head. “That’s a part of it, but a bigger part is that she taught me some more useful stuff, and the training methods conflicted.”

“Oh. Is that…also a secret?”

“Mm, some of it is. I think the classes are going to teach it later in the year, maybe, so it might be okay to talk about? I’ll ask. But, uh, more generally, without any big secrets, I can say that I’ve been working toward a different goal than raw mana levels.”

“Can you say what that is?”

He nodded. “Yeah. You know all the speculation about Meltlake’s attunement being special, and what it really is.”

“Fire-specialized. Oh. Oh!” I snapped my fingers as I processed it. “She’s got secret techniques for developing a specialization.”

“Yep.” Patrick grinned. “Of course, in my case, it’s gonna be lightning, rather than fire. And that’s tricky, but…I think it’ll suit me better.”

“Why? She’s famous for fire…is there a downside?”

“Not as such. Fire is still the best for just wiping out big crowds of monsters or, you know, melting lakes. But you know how mana in the body helps you with more than just, you know, having more mana?”

“Sure.” I absently scratched at the glove on my right hand. “Practicing transference is making me faster. My mental mana’s benefits are harder to notice, but it’s probably gradually improving my memory, computation, and accuracy.”

“Right. So, fire mana mostly helps protect people from extreme temperature changes — like, you know, getting hit with other fire attacks. Or ice. Or whatever. Fire and ice are two of the most commonly used types of attacks, so resisting them has some serious utility. But lightning mana is a little more, I don’t know, generally useful?”

“It’s not just resistance to electricity, I take it? Speed, maybe, like how transference works?”

“Yeah. Or, uh, sort of? Transference is better for just, say, running faster. Lightning will help me with that a little, but it’s less about that and more about reaction speed. When you see Elementalists quickly throwing spells back and forth to counter each other, lightning mana helps us do that. More lightning mana is useful for anyone, but I…well, it’s kind of embarrassing to say it out loud.”

I blinked. “Why would wanting to react faster be embarrassing?”

“I…kind of picked it because of the sword you made me.” I felt my heart grow a little bit warmer. “You…really?You’re building your career around that?”

“Hey, don’t make it any more awkward than it already is.” He blushed, turning aside, then spoke again more quietly. “I’ve always loved the stories about the sacredswords. But Dawnbringer…it…no, “she”, sorry. She’s incredible, Corin. Even more now that we’ve been hearing the stories from Keras. What you did, making me that replica…” He turned back toward me. “Thank you. It’s the most meaningful gift anyone has ever given me.”

“I…” I didn’t know what to say to that. I’ve never been good at serious, emotional talks, and the conversation was rapidly getting away from me. So, I backed up a bit. “Uh, you’re welcome. So, how does lightning relate to using…oh. Reaction time helps you use Bright Reflection to, well, reflect things.”

“Right! Bright Reflection is an absurdly useful weapon. I even reflected Mizuchi’s breath with it. Mizuchi. If I get better with it, I could build an entire combat style around reflecting spells.”

“Wouldn’t the weapon’s mana limitations have an impact on that?”

He nodded fervently. “Yeah. But I was hoping, if it wasn’t too much trouble…maybe we could upgrade the sword’s mana capacity as you get stronger?”

“Oh, yeah. Sure.” I waved a hand dismissively. “That’s easy stuff. I talked to Keras about that when we first worked on it, it’s definitely doable. Honestly, we can probably give it more of the real Dawnbringer’s powers eventually, too.”

“Really?” He looked so excited he practically stood up. “Do you think you could do Golden Dawn next? People don’t think it’s as useful as reflecting magic, but being able to blind your opponents with it has some serious applications, and it’s also a great light source, and…”

I smiled and laughed. “You know what? Let me go get my books and a bite to eat, and I’ll start looking up the runes for it right now.”

“Wait, really? You will? But wait, you still don’t have light mana yet, so…”

“You’re right. I won’t have it until Citrine…” I considered that maybe, just maybe, I could temporarily change that,but I didn’t say anything. Enabling higher-level attunement features one at a time was theoretically possible for me, but it was a huge risk and I didn’t want to do it until I had studied it more. I needed a better understanding of the potential consequences. “But I don’t think that’s an obstacle. Keras has been in a rough mood lately, but I think this is one project he might actually be happy to help with.”

With that, I got to work.

I didn’t make the upgrades to the sword that night, but I made some progress with the research. I considered asking Keras about it, but he was missing for the whole evening. So was Derek.

They were out for another “night on the town”. I didn’t ask what that meant, but I had a feeling that it was going to be time to find out soon.

