CHAPTER II – HOME

After Father left, the crowd quickly dispersed. My friends watched him leave along with me, turned in my direction with looks of concern. I had no answers to give.

It was Sera who spoke first. “Come on. This isn’t the right place to talk.” Then she marched off, vaguely in the direction of Lorian Heights.

We’d stopped at the closest train station to the academy, so it wasn’t far. Presumably, Father had anticipated that in order to meet us there, or simply checked our itinerary somehow. Haven Securities — the owner of the train company — probably had files he could have checked.

…Or, of course, maybe Sera had simply told him when and where we were arriving.

She’d told me she was going to write him a letter. She’d told me I should write a letter. She’d told me that there would be consequences if I didn’t.

She’d been right.

…Except, of course, that those consequences might have been avoidable if she hadn’t written her own letter.

I felt a flash of anger as I followed her, but I pushed it down as best I could. She was right about one thing: this wasn’t the time or place for discussing things further. We’d drawn more than enough attention as-is.

Briefly, I glanced back toward the departing crowd. Was Jin among them? He’d been on the train, but I hadn’t seen him since. Or maybe I had, and I simply hadn’t noticed him. Those Mesmer abilities were infuriating.

A quick look didn’t reveal his presence. I felt some comfort in that. I hoped he hadn’t seen what had just happened: it was bad enough with the others witnessing it.

We walked a little further. Sera turned away from the school, heading down a street that would lead us closer to the Serpent Spire.

“W…where are we going?” Cecily stammered. She looked shaken, even more than I had been. I couldn’t blame her. Her own last experiences with Magnus Cadence had been… harrowing. They’d been a large part of why we hadn’t spoken in years.

“Derek Hartigan’s new place,” Sera answered.

“Derek’s back?” Patrick’s genuine grin helped wipe away a bit of the gloom of the mood. “How do you know?”

“I’ve been corresponding with him via a Wayfarer on the train for the last few days. He arrived back just before we did, and he’s expecting us.”

Of course she’s already planned this far ahead.

I resisted the urge to sigh. “Just as a visit, or…?”

“No, to stay. After seeing Hartigan family accommodations, I’m certainly not sleeping in the dorms again this year. He’ll have guest rooms set up for all of us. That includes you, Ceci.” Sera turned toward Cecily. “You have no obligation to stay with us, of course, but I feel it would be prudent and productive. I already sent a message to Yunika, she’ll be joining us for dinner later in the evening.”

I hadn’t even thought about Cecily’s sister recently. The things Cecily went through in Caelford…obviously Yunika would need to know about that, if she didn’t already.

Would she blame me for Cecily’s injuries?I couldn’t even bother to worry about that. There simply wasn’t enough of me left to worry about something that small.

“Th…thanks, Sera. I’ll think about if I want to stay or not.” Cecily gave a half-smile, but her mind was clearly still focused on other things.

“Derek ever give ya any idea what he was up to out in the Unclaimed Lands?” Mara asked, probably both out of curiosity and a desire to help break up the tension.

“No, he was being a bit more evasive than usual. I expect we’ll be able to inquire more after we see him. It’s possiblehe didn’t want to talk about anything private while we used a Wayfarer as an intermediary. I’ve been working on learning message spells myself, but my range isn’t great.”

Sera continued to lead the way. Throughout the walk, Keras was uncharacteristically quiet, but I didn’t have the heart to ask why.

***Derek Hartigan’s new home was a little more conventionally impressive than the last. It was a six-story tower, like a miniature Serpent Spire, with a hedge maze surrounding the entire structure. Upon walking into the maze, I realized it wasn’t purely ornamental; the trail markers on the road were marked with runes that I recognized as having functions related to Perception mana.

I felt some of that Perception mana brush against my mind as soon as we walked into the area. I frowned, glancing more closely at the runes.

Let’s see…observation runes for sight and sound, then some that are…oh, some sort of confusion effect? Presumably to get anyone who isn’t supposed to be here lost in the maze. Amusing.

Sera must have realized — or already known — the same thing. “It’s Sera and friends,” she said aloud. After a moment, one wall of the maze faded and vanished, revealing another pathway. She strode down that path without missing a beat and the rest of us followed.

We reached the front door of the tower just as Derek emerged. He was freshly shaved and showered, and his wet hair looked like he’d just had it trimmed recently. He was wearing both of his swords on his hips, but otherwise, he was dressed simply, at least by Derek’s standards. His grey trousers matched the coat that I’d sometimes seen him wearing, although the coat itself was absent. He wore a short-sleeved white shirt, which wasn’t really appropriate for the still-cold weather, but it probably didn’t matter when one generated fire mana at the rate that Derek did.

Derek beamed brightly at us and waved as we approached. “Welcome, welcome! Come on in!” He pushed the door open wide and stepped aside. “You can set your bags down just inside, then I’ll show you to your rooms. Presuming you’re staying, of course.”

Sera led the way forward, pausing to lean forward and whisper something to Derek. His expression dropped to a more serious one, but only for an instant. “Is that so…?” He muttered, glancing us over. “Explains why you look like a funeral procession.” Derek shook his head. “In. I’ll get some food ready. A warm meal always helps in difficult times.”

We filed in, setting down our bags. Cecily looked a little awkward at first, but her expression shifted to wide-eyed awe when she saw the sheer number of runes cut into the walls of the interior of the structure. She scampered off toward one particular set, then quickly returned to her bag to pull out a sketchpad.

Something passed between Keras and Derek as the former stepped inside. A sort of silent acknowledgement, but I couldn’t quite read what it was about. Rather than setting down his bag, Keras walked by the rest of us and headed straight up the tower’s spiral stairway.

A half-beat later, Derek closed the door behind us. “Make yourselves at home. I’ll be right back.”

Then he headed up the stairway, trailing after Keras.

A heartbeat passed before Mara glanced from side-to- side and then followed the two of them. I had no idea if she was more aware of what was going on than I did, but I didn’t try to stop her. I simply walked until I found the kitchen — it wasn’t hard, it was simply toward the back of the tower’s bottom floor — found a table, sat down, and buried my head in my hands.

Breathe, I told myself.

I heard someone sit down next to me. Patrick. He didn’t say a word, but he sat with me while I tried to gather myself back into a functional state.

Just breathe.

I tried my best.

***I don’t know how much time passed while I just sat there, chasing after other realities in my mind.

Should I have fought immediately? What if I’d lost? What if I’d won?Should I have continued to staunchly refuse? Should I have let someone else fight on my behalf?I pictured each possibility, branches and branches of routes that could have been if I’d made slightly different choices.

Patrick sat with me for a while in companionable silence. Eventually, he gave me a grim look, a mumbled “sorry”, and wandered off somewhere.

It was probably better that way.

It took the slam of a plate of steaming hot food in front of me to jar me out of my reverie. It was accompanied by a second plate a moment later as Sera sat down across from me and poked a fork into her first bite. “You’re brooding.”

It wasn’t a question, and I didn’t bother to refute it. “Can you, of all people, really blame me for that?”

She frowned. “What’s that supposed to mean?” “The letter. If you hadn’t—”

She cut me off. “I burned it.” I blinked. “What?”

“I never sent the letter. You told me it was my choice, and I chose.”

I was momentarily stunned, taking a moment to process. “…Then how did he know?She shrugged. “Any number of ways. We didn’t exactly hide our trail. Tristan could have found some way to get in contact with him, either directly or through an intermediary, and provided information that way. We don’t know what Tristan’s full resources are or the identity of his powerful benefactor. Father could have heard from Cecily’s family.

And I did write to your mother. I sincerely doubt she told him, but it’s not impossible. More likely, he simply hired a Diviner to look for us when we didn’t come home when the school year ended. If he did it within a day or so, we probably would have been easily within divination range on the train toward Caelford. After that, it would simply be a matter of checking train schedules for returning trains. I wouldn’t be surprised if he was able to get his hands on the passenger manifests.”

I exhaled a breath. “…I’m glad you didn’t send it.” “Knowing what I know now, I’m glad I didn’t send it, too.”

She shook her head. “But I still can apologize.” I blinked at her. “What?”

“I…don’t think I’ve taken this whole situation seriously enough.” She shook her head, absently prodding at what looked like it was probably a potato. Whatever meal she’d set out in front of us had a thick, unfamiliar sauce atop it. Something tomato-based, I think. “You told me that he had hurt you, and it’s not that I didn’t believe you, it’s just…”

I sighed. “It’s easier to ignore when you haven’t actually seen it. I know. It’s not like you’re the only one who assumed it was just a bit of ‘overzealous discipline’.”

“That’s not quite what I was thinking, but I…I guess I didn’t want to think about it. The severity. The implications.”

“We all have our blind spots. I’m sure I’m no exception.” “This might not be the right time to mention it, but—”

I closed my eyes. “Tristan.”

“Tristan.” She whispered the response.

“I didn’t really take you seriously about him, either, did I? You mentioned that he took after Father, and I…” I winced. “I didn’t want to believe you.”

“We don’t need to talk about this right now.”

I sighed, letting my eyes open. “No. But maybe we should. I asked if he touched you, and you said no. Was that true?”

“The way you phrased it, and your tone, made it sound like you were asking if he sexually assaulted me. He didn’t. But he did physically hurt me, more than once. And under similar pretenses to Father’s.”

“Training?”

She nodded. “He told me that if I was going to protect you, I needed to be strong. So, he made me ‘fight’ him. Over and over. As if an eleven-year-old girl could really ‘fight’ a sixteen-year-old boy who was already winning school tournaments.” She shook her head. “I don’t think it was on the same scale as what you dealt with. A wooden sword couldn’t inflict the kind of damage that Father could cause to either of us. He…broke my arm once, though. I expected it to stop after that, but it didn’t.”

“Wait. Tristan is the one who broke your arm? Everyone told me that was an accident.”

Sera snorted. “The only accident involved was that I made the mistake of actually hitting him back, once. He told me it was a ‘good shot’, and then he hit me harder. The result…well, you remember that embarrassing cast I wore. At least it healed clean. I…don’t think he did anything permanent.”

“That’s still…” My hands tightened into fists. “Goddess.

What is wrong with this family?”

She reached out with a hand. “I’m…sorry, Corin. For what it’s worth, I think he was just emulating Father.”

“That doesn’t make it acceptable!” I raised my voice, causing Sera to pull back. “Sorry, sorry. I’m…just so angry. For you, not at you.”

She winced. “I don’t think it’s as bad as what Father did to you.”

I shook my head. “It’s not a contest. I’ll…talk to Tristan. He was young, and impressionable, and maybe Father was hurting him the same way…”

“Don’t bring it up. Not now.” She shook her head. “It’s not the kind of thing you can expect a reasonable responseabout in a letter. He’ll have plenty of time to construct an excuse if you do it in writing. And if anyone should confront him about it, that person should be me.”

“You’re sure?”

“No. But it’s not the business of the day, is it?”

“I suppose not.” My jaw tightened. “I…thank you for telling me.”

“You’re welcome. I’m sorry I didn’t listen to you about Father.”

“I’m…sorry, too.” I reached out with my own hand. She seemed to understand how hard that was for me, and tentatively, she reached out, grabbed my hand, and gave it a brief squeeze.

I held her hand a little longer than I needed to. “Can…we talk more? I don’t want to have more problems like this. I always thought we were above this kind of…”

“Interpersonal drama caused by a failure to communicate basic things?”

I gave a weak chuckle. “When you put it like that, it makes us sound pretty awful, doesn’t it?”

“No, Corin.” She shook her head. “It makes us sound human.”

***We talked for a while after that, mostly focusing on smaller things.

A while later, when I was a little calmer, we circled back to the subject at hand.

Sera gave me a sad smile. “I want to thank you for accepting the duel, as awful as it is. Not because I want you to fight him. I still think bowing out might be a good idea. But you accepted it so I wouldn’t lose my own status, didn’t you? I know you don’t care much for our house.”

I shrugged. “You’re not wrong, but…the more I think about it, the more I feel like it was the right choice. And not just for your sake. Not just for Patrick’s, either: I think he’dbe fine losing his retainership. In truth, I think I need this for my own sake, too.”

“To prove yourself?”

I shook my head. “No. Not exactly, at least. Showing him that I’m strong isn’t enough. I need to show him that I don’t need him and that I’m not going to submit to his horrific style of authority.”

Sera gave me a serious look. “I…don’t know if I should say this, but…you know he’s just going to take it as another form of validation if you somehow manage to beat him, right? He’ll say, ‘oh, Corin has gotten so strong, it must be because of my excellent training’.”

“It’s something I’m thinking about. I need to not only beat him, but beat him in a way that is so distinct from his own style that he can’t go through those mental gymnastics.”

“…I’m not sure that’s possible, Corin.”

I shrugged. “We’ve seen a lot of seemingly impossible things in the last year, Sera. Is it too much to ask for me to be able to make one?”

“I don’t know.” She’d finally resumed actually eating, so she lifted her fork, took a bite, frowned, chewed and then quickly washed whatever she’d been eating down with a gulp of water. “I’m not sure there’s any way that this ends the way we want.”

“The first step is figuring out that ending. Then, I suppose, we can work backward from there.” I hesitated, taking a fork of food of my own, but without eating it. “…Will you help me? You’re better at figuring out all this social stuff than I am.”

“I’m not sure that’s as true as I’d like it to be…but of course, I’ll do whatever I can.”

“Thank you, Sera.” I exhaled a sigh. “I’d really rather not tackle this one alone.”

Sera smiled. “There was never any chance of that, Corin.

You have my support. Always.”

I didn’t know what to say to that, so I just mumbled, “Thanks.”

I was past ready to end the conversation there. It felt like a nice and dramatic stopping point. I started eating, but I didn’t get more than a bite or two into the strange meal before Sera made another interjection.

“…I know this is going to sound bad, given all our discussion about letters, but you need to write to your mother.”

I dropped my fork onto the plate with an audible clatter. Sera winced. I raised my hands in apology. “Sorry. Didn’t mean to be dramatic. I just…that’s…oof.”

“Yeah. Oof is right. It’s going to complicate things further, but you absolutely need to get ahead of this. Write her before Father does. I can get the message delivered.”

“…I don’t suppose you want to write her yourself?”

“I can write her something, but she’s not my mother. It really will be better if you handle this one. I can sit with you while you work on it. We can workshop the contents.”

I groaned. “…Fine. Can we…at least eat, first?”

“Yeah.” She nodded, then glanced back down at her plate with a strange expression. “…Maybe something else, though? This was kind of awful when it was warm, and now it’s both cold and awful.”

I snorted. “It isn’t that bad.”

“It isn’t that good, either.” Sera gave me a soft smile. “Want to go out for something nice? Maybe relax a little?”

“…Thanks, but no. Going out isn’t really my style of relaxing.”

“That’s fair.” She nodded. “…Maybe I’ll send Vanniv to pick us up something.”

I took one look back down at the plate, experimented with another bite, shuddered, then glanced back up at Sera. “…Yeah, that might be best.”

***Better food arrived eventually, although I didn’t pay much attention to it.

I recall absently composing a letter at Sera’s behest. The wording was mostly hers, since I couldn’t be bothered to be polite about the situation without her prompting.

Dear Mother,I hope you are well.

Sera and I are healthy and back in Valia. Upon our return from vacationing in Caelford, I met with Father, who was in poor spirits. In summary, he challenged me to a duel for my lack of communication, which I find terribly funny.

I have accepted a duel with Father, to occur after concluding my next semester at Lorian Heights.

In large part, my acceptance represents a desire on my part to take some justice for many years of mistreatment at Father’s hands. I will explain this further to you when you are capable of meeting me in person; it is not a subject matter that should be discussed without additional layers of security.

Please do not intervene on my behalf. I feel any additional complications would only make things worse at this point in time.

I do not intend to cancel the duel. Your loving son,Corin CadenceI felt empty after finishing the note. Hollow. “Love” for my parents was about the furthest thing from my mind, given the circumstances, but I recognized that there was no rational reason to lump my father and my mother together in this scenario.

True, Mother had neglected me to pursue the means to finding and rescuing Tristan, but she had clearly been under the impression that Father had been taking better care of me. She’d written me many letters that I’d never received,and while that was certainly not the same as coming to visit in person, I could understand that she’d done more than I’d realized.

I did blame her for not intervening in my life, but that blame was tempered with the knowledge that I’d developed the very same obsession with saving Tristan that she had. I could not claim I would have done better in her place. I likely would have done worse, in fact.

It was probably for the best that I never intended to have children of my own.

Anyway, I finished the letter, handed it off to Sera, and then went back to staring into the nothingness of the universe via a particularly boring spot on Derek’s wall.

Eventually, Derek himself came back down the stairs, looking a little scuffed. He’d probably been sparring with Keras, Mara, or both.

Oh, good, someone else has decided to check in and tell me how to handle my issues.

I grimaced as he sat down, bracing myself for whatever attempt Derek was going to make to intervene.

It didn’t come. Or, at least, not in the form I’d expected. “So,  after  what  happened  with  the  last  house,  I’vedecided that my security measures were sorely lacking. I’ve already had an Enchanter come by and handle some of the basics, but if you’re going to be living here again, I was thinking that you might want to pay your way a bit.”

I blinked. “…Of course. What did you have in mind?” “Let’s do a quick walk through of my existing securityenchantments. Then, you can tell me what I’m missing, and we can discuss if you can handle them.”

Derek stood up. I found myself standing and following him into the house.

…It was probably a one-dimensional trick to get my mind off of my situation, but in that moment, it was absolutely the right approach.

He took me around the house, pointing out runes in various locations. I took judicious notes, finding that he’d already handled basics like structural integrity reinforcement, anti-scrying, and anti-teleportation (with specific “keys” for bypassing the anti-teleportation function). They were all in the Citrine-level range, indicating that he’d either paid a lot of money for the enchantments or had a higher-level friend than me that owed him favors. Maybe both.

Either way, I couldn’t compete with the power of his existing enchantments, but I could find gaps. Mostly small things, like areas where the existing runes were missing small sections of coverage on the second floor, options for sound-proofing the training areas, and a particularly nice set of runes I’d stumbled on recently for self-repair on stone structures that would undoubtedly be useful on the rooftop when Keras and Derek inevitably destroyed it again.

“I’d like you to begin work on those immediately. Let me know if you need any materials or assistance. I can provide mana for these if you can make the shells,” Derek explained.

I nodded. Having access to Derek’s mana pool would make higher-level enchantments much more plausible. I hadn’t done much practice with shells for higher-level enchantments since the construction of Bright Reflection and this would be a good chance to see just how powerful of items I could make with help.

“I can start on some of the simpler stuff today. The self- repair stuff is going to require a bit of additional research.”

“Understood.” Derek nodded. “In addition, I’d like you to work on some message items. I understand that Sera has already been hounding you for some, but you were out of raw materials and low on time?”

“Yeah, I was able to fix the one I’d made Keras before, but I’m out of pure silver, and Sera and I couldn’t get much range on our own. She has air mana, but not a lot of it.”

“If air mana is the main issue, I’ll solve it. I want Sunstone-level or higher messaging items for everyone in this household within the next month or so. Can you do that?”

“…I mean, sure, if you’ve got the materials and you’re willing to provide the mana.”

“Done.” He snapped his fingers. “Oh, and one more message item for my apprentice.”

“…You have an apprentice?”

Derek laughed. “I have a few, actually, but this one in particular has a need for some equipment. Maybe one of your improved shield sigils as well, with the teleport functions?”

I hadn’t told him about those yet. How much had Sera been talking to him? Or had he somehow found out through other means?It didn’t matter. Derek had his suspicious qualities, but he’d been nothing but good to me. “Easily done.”

“Excellent. Let me know when you need mana for anything.”

I nodded. “I don’t suppose I could convince you to lend your mana to some other projects?”

“Mmm. This is already pushing my interest levels a bit, but I suppose I’ll consider it if the project is entertaining enough.”

That had potential. If I could get his help with some Citrine-level gear…Wheels turned in my mind.

The sooner I get to work, the sooner I can start making myself loot.

“Retrieve: Etching Rod.”

I headed for the nearest wall and began to write.

