CHAPTER I – DRAW YOUR SWORD

Corin Cadence’s Perspective

I’d known that seeing my father again was going to be difficult.

I’d expected — and yes, Sera had warned — that there would be consequences for my brazen disregard for my father’s wishes and my failure to alert him to my activities.

I had not, however, expected him to wait at the train station for my return to Valia.

He hadn’t waited at the train station for my return from my Judgment, after all. No one had.

And so, when I stepped off the train and saw him, my first reaction was surprise. This was immediately followed by a combined sense of dismay and disbelief when he pushed his coat aside to reveal his dueling cane and spoke the words, “Draw your sword.”

Magnus Cadence was a professional duelist. I’d grown up hearing stories of his exploits, although I’d only rarely been allowed to witness his fights directly. He was a Citrine-level Shaper, but I didn’t know precisely how deep into Citrine- level he was. Even if I assumed he was at the absolute bottom of Citrine — which I deemed unlikely, given his obsession with training — he was vastly more powerful than I was and more experienced at personal combat.

Equipment may have done something to compensate for that, if he’d shown up without any items of his own. As it was, however, I noted that he was wearing multiple potentially magical items: a crown, a rune-etched belt, and a silver-threaded overcoat. These were parts of his full dueling regalia, which I only had seen him wear on a handful of occasions. I had some ideas on how they worked, but at that moment, a detailed threat assessment wasn’t on my mind.

Instead, my reaction was simple. “What?”

“You heard me, boy.” He didn’t sneer or snarl like the caricature of a villain you might picture when thinking about a father challenging his son to a duel. Instead, he simply sounded…disappointed. Resigned. After a beat, he clarified, “You have disrespected me for the last time.”

Fortunately or unfortunately, that brief pause was enough for me to get a hint of my bearings back. “You think so? We’ve barely started chatting, I think I’ll have a number of other opportunities for disrespect.”

“Corin!” Sera stepped up next to me. “Not here.”

Her speech reminded me that we weren’t alone. Patrick and Mara had just stepped off the train as well, and I knew Cecily wasn’t far behind. Keras had been stopped by immigration security on the train and was still dealing with paperwork, but I didn’t anticipate that taking him much longer.

Father ignored Sera and the others, however, continuing to focus his attention solely on me. This, perhaps, could be seen as a microcosm for our interactions over the last several years. “Come. Step away from the train. There’s an open space nearby that should be suitable. This won’t take long.”

I stared at him. “You’re serious.” “Absolutely serious.”

I gestured to the dozens of other people coming off of the train, as well as the rest of the station crowd. “Let me see if I have this right: you are challenging your own heir to a duel in the middle of a public place.”

“You’re quite aware of what I’m doing and why. Your veil of incredulity will not avert this.”

“Really? You realize that no matter how this goes, you’re going to be hurting the reputation of House Cadence? You know, the only thing that has ever mattered to you?”

His lips trembled just slightly. I’d hit the mark on that one. “There is only one way this ends: in your humiliation. Your insubordination requires an answer. You’ve made itabundantly clear that simpler methods of ensuring your behavior have been insufficient. Thus, I must remind you of your place.”

“You really think beating me into the ground is going to teach me a lesson?” I gave him a bitter laugh. “You’ve been trying that method for years — how well has it worked so far?”

“Corin, this isn’t the place for this sort of talk. Father,” Sera said pointedly, “we should take this discussion home.”

Father shifted his head toward Sera for the first time. “Watch your words. I did not give you permission to call me that.”

Sera didn’t wince like I might have expected. She just… deflated a little. “…Fine. But this is unbecoming of you. We can resolve this without a public display.”

Magnus glared down at her. “I am the head of this household and I discipline my child where I wish, when I wish, and how I wish. You would do well to remember that.”

I noted the term “child” — as in singular, not plural — and I’m sure that Sera did as well. He was not-so-subtly reminding her that she’d been acknowledged as a member of the household, but not as his daughter.

Always going for the most damage with the fewest words. That’s Magnus Cadence.

Sera didn’t speak again, not immediately, at least. At that point, Cecily finished dragging her bags off the train. I heard a “meep” as she startled upon seeing Magnus, then slowly took a few steps away, scanning the crowd with her eyes.

I didn’t blame her. We were attracting a considerable degree of attention now. No one was standing too close, but there were at least a couple dozen people watching from a safe distance, and I suspected at least a few people had run off to get the train station’s security team.

Before anything further could happen, Magnus jerked a thumb toward a wide section of grass about fifty feet awayfrom the train. “Enough chatter. Come. I’ll make this quick.”

Magnus Cadence spun on his heel, then began to walk toward the grass.

“No.” I said toward his back.

Father paused in place without turning around. “I’m not certain I heard you correctly.”

“I said ‘no’, Father. I refuse your challenge.”

Magnus turned back toward me, folding his hands in front of him. “I am your lord father. You do not get to refuse.”

Patrick stepped up next to me. “He’s an attuned. An adult. He can do what he wants.”

“Ah, the commoner.” Magnus smiled. “Will you be taking his place, then?”

“I…if Corin needs me to, I am his retainer, and I will stand for—”

I cut Patrick off with a raised hand. “There’s no need for that. No one will be dueling you today, Father.”

Magnus shook his head. “A shame. I did everything in my power to raise you properly, but it seems you’ve inherited your mother’s habit for running away.”

I blinked. “…Are you trying to goad me into a fight by insulting Mother? You can’t possibly think that’s going to be effective. If you’d spent any time paying attention to who I am, rather than just trying to bludgeon me into a younger version of you, you’d understand that your strategy had no chance of success.”

I heard some mumbling in the background. Word was going to spread about this.

Is Father being uncharacteristically sloppy by challenging me here, or is this all part of some kind of long game on his part?It doesn’t matter, does it?Father turned back toward me. “I will offer you one final chance to handle this the easy way. Accept your lesson now, and I will make it quick. Choose the coward’s path and you will face far greater consequences.”

“You don’t get it, do you?” I took a step forward. “I fought things stronger than you on my winter break. I’m not a coward. I’m not weak. And I’m not afraid of you. You’re simply not worth my time.”

I turned to the people behind me. My retainer, my sister, my friend…and whatever Cecily was. “Let’s go.”

“To where?” Magnus interjected. “Home? Refuse me now, and you needn’t bother. You will not have one. None of you will.”

I turned back toward him. “…What’s that supposed to mean?”

“I thought it would be straightforward enough that even you could understand. Refuse to accept your discipline right now, and you will no longer be a member of House Cadence. I will disown you.”

Ah. So there it is. Finally, the hook.

I saw it easily enough, and I didn’t bite. “Do you think that will stop me? Fine. Go ahe—”

Sera stepped between us…and at that point, I realized my foolishness.

The hook had never been thrown at me.

“Please allow us to discuss this briefly, Fa…Lord Cadence.” Sera had a look of barely suppressed panic, and I could understand why.

It would have been easy to assume that disowning me would elevate Sera’s position: she would, after all, be uncontested as the heir to House Cadence in my absence.

But Magnus Cadence’s language had been calculated to make it abundantly clear that he had not acknowledged Sera as his daughter. His dismissive language toward both Patrick and Sera implied their unimportance. And, by saying that none of us would have a home to return to if I refused, he’d implied that he was treating us as a package deal.

I wasn’t invested in House Cadence. He knew that. But Sera?For her, being the heiress to House Cadence was a Tarren Tale. She’d been raised without a father. Raised to be a servant. When she’d learned that her father might be a noble that she’d known and respected her entire life, that had been a dream come true. Even the truth about how Magnus had treated me hadn’t completely eroded that.

And Father wielded that dream like a blade, driving it between us.

“Is there a problem here?”

A man with a habit of breaking blades stepped off the train. Casually, he stepped in front of Sera and me, directly into Father’s line of sight.

“This is a family matter. You needn’t concern yourself.” Father said.

Keras’ eyes narrowed, a cutting grin sliding across his face. “Oh, I disagree. You see,” he gestured toward me, “I have a part-time job as Corin’s bodyguard, and I’m a little disappointed I haven’t had a chance to do much with it yet.”

Keras’ hands were empty, but with each heartbeat, I felt it growing — the sensation that the air was alive with blades, that a drawn sword was ready to obliterate everything in a single unstoppable strike.

It was that moment, more than any other, that made me panic. Maybe I should have found it comforting that someone strong had stepped in with the intent to protect me, but all I saw was the situation quickly unraveling before my eyes.

There was always a part of me that wanted my father to face the consequences of his actions. Retribution for all the days I’d laid bleeding on the ground, barely managing to draw breath, in the aftermath of his “training”.

But there was a smaller, childlike voice inside of me that still screamed, “That is your father, don’t let someone hurt him!”

There was, of course, no need for concern for Keras’ well- being.

If a battle between the two of them started, there was absolutely no question in my mind how it would end.

An image of my father’s broken body in a growing pool of blood flashed through my mind. I opened my mouth to speak, but Father responded first.

Magnus Cadence’s expression was full of disdain. He clearly didn’t recognize who he was talking to. “Is this where you say I’ll have to go through you to get to him?”

Keras raised a hand, shaking his head softly. “No, no. Slight misconception on your part. You don’t get through me. No one gets through me. You walk away now or you don’t walk away at all.”

Father stood up a little straighter. “You’re bold, I’ll give you that. Perhaps you’ll make a suitable warmup round. I suppose breaking you might give Corin some additional inspiration to make wise choices in the future.”

“Nonono,” I finally managed to snap out of my stupor and get my mouth to work. “Keras, stop, it’s fine.”

“It’s absolutely not fine.” His hands balled into fists. “The way he treats you has never been fine.” Keras glanced at me with regret weighing on his features. “I’m sorry that I wasn’t there when he showed up at the Theas’ place to see you. I should have been there. I failed you then, but now,” he turned back to Magnus, “I am here. And I will not let him hurt you again.”

“Who are you to judge the way I raise my child?” Father tightened his jaw.

The swordsman took a step closer, his eyes flashing silver as he stared toward my father. “I’m Keras Selyrian.” He took another step, putting them nearly face-to-face. “Amuletless Alliterator, Slayer of Sacred Stones, Deity’s Demise, and Sword of Shattered Stars. And most importantly for this conversation, I’m someone with absolutely no tolerance for the kind of pitiful and disgusting coward that hits their own child. You don’t need to bother challenging me. I’ll—”

Sera stepped back in horror. And, goddess curse me, I stepped forward instead. “Keras, enough. Father, I accept your challenge.”

There was a moment of silence as all eyes turned to me.

Father turned toward me, ignoring Keras entirely in spite of their close proximity. “Finally, a hint of some spine.”

I steeled myself and added, “…There are a few conditions.”

Father scoffed. “Ah, of course there are. I’m ashamed for having a moment of hope that you’d simply chosen to do the right thing.”

Keras looked straight at me, his piercing gaze shining with flecks of silver. “You don’t have to do this.”

I turned to Sera, then Father, then back to Keras. “You’re right. I don’t. But I’m tired of this. So very, very tired. And I need to settle it myself.”

Father walked away from Keras, turning to look down at me. “State your terms, boy.”

“One year.” I said. I’d like to say that it was some masterful calculation, but in truth, it was simply the first thing that came to my mind.

Father raised an eyebrow. “Pardon?”

“I’ll give you your duel, but I’m about to begin my second year of attunement training. It would be irresponsible of me to allow any injuries I sustain in a duel to impede my training or academic performance. Thus, one year. You let me finish my school year, and when it concludes, I will fight you in a formal duel.”

Magnus paused a moment, then shook his head. “No, that’s excessive.”

I opened my mouth to object, but he raised a hand to stop me.

“…I have no interest in ruining your academic career, however. There will be a break between the semesters. We will hold our duel during that time.”

I shrugged a shoulder. “Okay, sure.”

His eye twitched. I’d surprised him with my agreement, if only slightly. I let that fact soothe my internal screaming, if only slightly.

Magnus spoke again before I could plan further. “What are your other terms?”

“My second will negotiate them with your second at a later time. We have a semester, after all.”

Magnus stared at me for one more moment, then blessedly, he nodded. “Very well. Prepare yourself. Our match will be right after your semester ends. And do not even think of running away.”

I turned my own head up to meet his. “I wouldn’t dream of it.”

Father gave me one last scrutinizing look, then spun dramatically, his coat whipping around as he moved. Then, without so much as a glance at anyone else, he walked away. The crowd parted around him.

“Corin…” Sera stepped closer to me. “Why…why did you…”

“For both of us,” I said. “To avenge my past and to ensure your future. That man is never going to stop hurting me unless I stop him myself.”

“I could handle that for you.” Keras stepped closer. “I’d very much like to handle that for you.”

I’d never seen him so obviously angry. It was…more than a little terrifying. His hands were trembling, as if they were still itching to draw his sword at any time, and if he did…I didn’t know if there was anything in the world that could stop him.

I shook my head vehemently. “No, no, please…it’s okay. I mean, it’s not okay, nothing about this is okay, but…don’t. You might be able to stop him from hurting me physically again…no, I’m sure you could, if you beat him badly enough. But…that wouldn’t fix things. There will be no resolution unless I make it with my own hands.”

Keras gave me a sad shake of his head. His expression softened, but the tremors in his hands remained. “It’s a dangerous thing, to fight your own father. I don’t mean that just literally. It…that sort of thing can change you. The resolution you’re looking for might help you close some wounds, but you’re going to open new ones in the process.”

I looked at Keras, feeling steel in my own stare. “I’m counting on it.”

