RECAP – ARCANE ASCENSION 1-3

By Patrick Wayland

Oh, I guess it’s my turn to explain things. Corin and Sera have been doing most of the talking for a while, after all.

I guess most of you already know me, but I’ll start over for those of you who don’t. I’m Patrick Wayland, or, I guess, Patrick Wayland-Cadence now. Uh, I’ll get to explaining that change later.

I grew up in Beaufort, not too far from the Cadence family. Mom and Dad aren’t rich and famous nobles or anything, but they spent a lot of money to send me off to a Judgment at the Serpent Spire as soon as I was old enough. They’ve always looked after me, even though I know it hasn’t always been easy.

If you don’t know, a Judgment is where you go through a test inside a spire, and if you succeed, you get this magic mark called an attunement. Attunements come in a bunch of types with different powers. I knew that if I succeeded and got one, it would help my family be more successful, and it’d also let me go to school with people like Sera and Corin.

My Judgment probably wasn’t anything special. Nothing like what Corin and Sera dealt with.

See, when Sera went through her Judgment, she made a pact with…wait, I’m not supposed to talk about that. Sorry,Sera! Never mind.

Uh, and Corin, he got into all sorts of trouble.

He found this magic book — Trials of Judgment — and it gave him some clues on how to solve the puzzles in the Judgment.

I’m skipping ahead, but the book was actually a magic book that let Corin talk to his brother, Tristan, who had been trapped in the tower for five years! Corin didn’t know it was Tristan right away because Tristan was like weirdly evasive about it and had some kind of strange villain-like scheme stuff going. But anyway, magic book! Yeah!After a few rooms, he found his way into a secret prison and freed three prisoners: Vera, Echion, and Keras.

Vera and Echion were from Caelford. Vera was a researcher and Echion was, well, a kid that was basically her test subject. Oh, but Corin didn’t know all that at the time!And Keras…well, Keras is a long story. He’s a crazy powerful swordsman from another continent with all sorts of weird pre-attunement magic and stuff. Oh! And he’s the former wielder of Dawnbringer, the Sacred Sword of Light!…I still want to know what happened to Dawn. Why isn’t she with you, Keras?…Ah, sorry. I’ll stop pestering you. You’ll tell us when it’s time.

Anyway, Corin freed the prisoners, which got him in trouble with Katashi, the Visage of Valor. The visages, if you don’t know, are the children of Selys, the goddess that protects and provides for the people of Kaldwyn. Selys is the Goddess of Trials, and she’s the one who constructed the towers, so we can prove if we’re worthy of her gifts in the form of attunements and other magical treasures.

If someone is truly worthy, they can climb all the way to the top of a spire — that’s called climbing, rather than taking a Judgment — and get a boon from Selys herself. I don’t know of anyone who has succeeded in our lifetime, but Corin’s mom apparently got half-way! That’s amazing.

Anyway, Corin got in trouble with Katashi, but it all worked out okay eventually!Oh! Corin also got a magic sword in the spire, too. He didn’t find this out until later, but the sword is called Selys- Lyann, which basically means “Sword of the Goddess”, and it has powerful ice magic! It’s also, uh, possibly starting to develop self-awareness? Not super clear on that. Corin really needs to do something about it soon, though.

After getting out of the spire, Corin went home and saw his father, Magnus Cadence! Magnus was super disappointed because Corin’s attunement wasn’t the one the family is famous for…or, like, traditionally known for fighty stuff in general. Magnus is a Shaper and a famous duelist, and House Cadence got their nobility from winning a duel that ended the Six Years War, so that’s a big thing for them. Oh, and Sera was there! That’s when Corin found out that Sera, who was raised to be his retainer, was actually a member of the family! And possibly his sister, but Magnus was like, really cagey about that.

Anyway, Magnus was really awful to Corin and tried to get him to compete with his sister for inheriting the house, but Corin was, uh, mostly just sort of disinterested and bored with that idea? So he read some books and tried to figure out his attunement a little, then got on a train to the university, which we all have to attend for two years after finishing our Judgment — Lorian Heights.

By the time we went to Lorian Heights, we all had our attunements. I’m an Elementalist, which means I can control fire, air, and lightning. I also got super lucky and got picked to be a personal apprentice to one of the most famous Elementalists of all time, Professor Meltlake! Professor Meltlake is super fantastic and she’s really powerful and regal and such a good teacher.

Oh, and we also met Mara! Mara is great and a Guardian and one of the strongest people in our class.

And then I also got adopted by Corin as a retainer, which is why I have the name Patrick Wayland-Cadence now!Uh, ignore why I asked him to be his retainer at that particular point in time, it’s not important.

Then Katashi showed up at school with all sorts of monsters! That was bad, but we fought our way over toward him, then Corin talked him out of killing us all.

Sorry, that’s skipping ahead kind of a lot. But it’s important, because Katashi gave Corin a responsibility to go find Vera and bring her back to the spire!Anyway, Katashi gave us this whole task thing where we needed to go get Vera and bring her to the tower. Corin went and got this magic box, the Jaden Box — a really neat box that has storage and summoning powers — and then we went to find Vera to take her to the spire. Which we did, but then Corin got backstabbed by Professor Orden! And also by Jin!Oh, right. I haven’t introduced them.

So, Professor Orden was one of our teachers, and kind of a mentor to Corin before she went all backstabby like.

And Jin…he’s a good guy, but he’s a transfer student from East Edria, and basically turning over Vera to Katashi was going to be…like, maybe really bad for Edria. And most people at the school were like, really mean and racist to him, so he didn’t have a great impression of us. So, I guess he tried to kill Vera — which is obviously awful, but he feels really bad about it! And he was…under a lot of pressure, and he…I don’t know. People do a lot of bad things under pressure, you know?I don’t really blame him for what he did, but I know Corin didn’t really forgive him completely for turning on him in the tower.

Also, they were…uh, kind of dating, I think? So that made the backstabbing worse.

Anyway! Corin beat the bad guys and freed Derek from mind control and got a new attunement from Katashi!Oh, right. Derek is Derek Hartigan, from the famous Hartigan family! He’s our friend and also Professor Meltlake’s nephew. Oh, they look different because he’s, like, adopted or something. Anyway, Derek is great, except when he’s mind-controlled and trying to kill us! Which he’s not anymore. That I know of.

Anyway, Corin got out of the tower with a great new attunement, Arbiter! And it’s a special Restricted Attunement that only a few people have, and it has extra powers that synergize really well with his original Enchanter attunement.

Oh, but Sera lost her powers and got some like, really bad mana scars. So that was bad. But her attunement turned into a more powerful ascended attunement, Invoker! Except it didn’t work, because her mana was, like, broken.

So yeah, in the second half of the year, we tried to figure out how to fix Sera’s mana problems and how Corin’s weird new Arbiter attunement worked. It turned out that Corin could use his Arbiter powers to purify mana, which let him make some really hard to make magic items, like mana regeneration ones! Also he could give us a weekly power boost, which is super useful and helped our powers advance faster than normal.

We went and lived with Derek Hartigan for a while, which was super nice because he’s like really rich and powerful and stuff! Also Keras came and lived with us and gave Mara and Corin some training in sword stuff.

Oh, and Corin and Keras made me this amazing sword, Bright Reflection, which is a replica of Keras’ legendary sword, Dawnbringer! It’s not nearly as powerful as the real Dawnbringer, but it’s super amazing and it can reflect magic and I love it.

Everything went pretty well until Corin got, like, half-way kidnapped by Derek’s ex-girlfriend who may now once again be his girlfriend, Elora Theas. She had some kind of schemes going on, then they all got attacked by a Child ofthe Tyrant in Gold (!!!!) named Saffron. That guy was super scary, but Elora teleported Corin to Derek, and Derek and Keras scared Saffron off (phew!).

Then we all went to the winter ball and Mizuchi, a child of the God Serpent, tried to kill everyone. =( =( =(She was angry because I guess our government is like ridiculously corrupt or something and she murdered like half the national council. Also the school chancellor. I was like super heroic and used Bright Reflection to reflect her breath attack! Then she almost killed me, so that was bad.

Uh, don’t feel bad for trying to heal me and doing it wrong, Corin. Not your fault.

Anyway, we eventually got saved by some of the professors, especially Meltlake, who almost beat Mizuchi, and then by Vellum, who banished Mizuchi back to the Serpent Spire.

Oh! And Cecily was at the ball, too. She was one of Corin’s childhood friends — and a possible arranged marriage for him! That didn’t actually play out, though, because of everything that happened with Tristan vanishing, and also maybe because of something that happened with Corin’s father that I’m not sure about. Oh, Cecily also has a sister named Yunika, and they know about Tristan being alive in the spire!After all that, Corin, Mara, Sera, Sheridan, and I went to the Serpent Spire to try to talk to Corin’s brother, Tristan, who was apparently stuck in there the whole time he was missing! And we found him, sort of, except Corin got separated from us and I wasn’t actually there for the big part where they fought Mizuchi again.

So Corin and Tristan and Sera got to fight Mizuchi and managed to teleport her out of the area, but Tristan got super hurt and lost an eye. But Corin got to see his brother was alive! And then they talked about future plans and stuff, but Tristan couldn’t leave the tower because apparently hewould explode (long story) so Corin had to leave him behind.

After that we went on winter vacation.

We went to Caelford so we could look for a cure for Sera’s mana scarring and so Corin could learn more about his attunement. Corin told some of his story on the train, then Keras told us about how he first found Dawnbringer, then our train got attacked by bandits!Oh, the bandits didn’t actually hurt anyone. And, uh, maybe didn’t rob anything? I think they may have kidnapped someone. Or rescued someone. I think Jin might have been one of them? It was all a little weird and I pretty much stayed in my room.

Anyway, bandits left, we got to Caelford. Mara and I went to the Tiger Spire with Keras and started climbing and got some new magic items!While we did that, Corin and Sera went to Farren Labs and met Anabelle Farren, the owner. They got some lessons and Corin learned all about compound runes and how artificial attunements are made!Then I met up with them again, then we went back to the Tiger Spire and climbed some more! We got some more items, including a token to try to get into a special Arbiter- only tower entrance, but it didn’t work.

Corin used a tracking spell to try to find the last person who had gone in the Arbiter door, Warren Constantine. Warren was another Arbiter, one who had worked for Farren Labs before running off to, uh, be a heretical hermit. Then we met Len, a magical copy of Keras’ old friend Lydia, and she took Corin and Sera to meet Warren!They met him, and he was like a weird creepy old guy, but nice! And then Corin and Sera took a test at this Transcendence Crystal Shrine thing and got magic marks that give them new powers. They also got invited to this thing called the Emerald Council happening next year, which is apparently a meeting for Emerald-level attuned (!)which are like the most powerful people on the continent. So that’s exciting!After that, we headed back to Valia. Jin showed up during the train ride and gave Corin a thing that would help with Sera’s mana scarring, which was really nice of him! And then he vanished because he’s like that.

I was feeling pretty good about the trip until we got home, and Corin’s dad challenged him to a duel (!!!). And, uh, I guess I’ll let Corin take over from there.

