CHAPTER XII – DUEL

The next morning was just more simple physical training, but my first major class of the day was on a subject that I’d been surprisingly excited about.

As expected, Lord Teft didn’t bother with traditional classroom. Instead, we met just outside the large arena where we’d fought with the enchanted tiles on the floor. At a glance, those enchanted tiles had seemingly been replaced with ordinary ones during the break between semesters, and I had to wonder if they were sitting around in storage somewhere.

…And if so, if that storage area had years and years of other enchanted tiles. Presumably, they’d been doing similar things for years, and Enchanters had been building more and more of them.

How valuable would thousands and thousands of enchanted tiles be? Were they repurposed somehow? If I could get my hands on them…As the bell rang to signal the start of class, my mind snapped into focus.

Lord Teft looked much as he had in the previous year, but in spite of his typical confidence, there was something uneven about the way he was standing. It took me a moment to realize that he was subtly leaning on his dueling cane, not particularly heavily, but enough that it seemed like he might have needed it to support his weight.

His wounds from Mizuchi, I realized. He still hasn’t fully recovered.

I briefly debated if I should ask him about them at some point, then hurriedly dismissed the idea. It wasn’t like I had more resources to heal him than he could have managed on his own. My own healing abilities were laughable, and while I did have a budding and undefinable relationship with Sheridan Theas, I wasn’t sure if I was at the point where Ifelt comfortable asking them to assist with healing other people that I wasn’t particularly close with.

The students were gathered around Lord Teft in a loose formation, much like we would have just before starting one of our major dueling events. I recognized most of the people there from last year, but there were a smattering of new faces. Some of these were presumably from Teft’s other first-year dueling classes in the previous year. Those didn’t worry me too much, unless maybe one of those groups contained whoever had beaten Meltlake’s simulacrum in the mid-terms. I was very curious about who had managed that and how.

As intriguing as that was, I was more worried about the third-years.

Two full teams of six of them stood alongside us, clear from their black uniforms and near-ubiquitous Sunstone- level auras. That level of power meant they’d been among the top students in the second year, since hitting Sunstone in the second year was fairly rare.

…Or, it had been, up until Meltlake had decided to shake the foundations of our society. I couldn’t be certain, but I was guessing that we’d see close to half the class at Sunstone-level before the end of the year. Maybe even a few Citrines.

…Could Mara make it there? Could I?I pushed that thought aside as Teft began to speak. “You’ve all been in my class before, so I won’t boremyself with any lengthy introductions. This year will focus on three versus three and six versus six matches. You may begin by forming teams of three. You have ten minutes. After that, we will begin our first round of team practice.”

Teams of three. That means…I glanced at Mara, Sera, and Patrick. There were four of us. That meant someone was going to be left out, wasn’t it?Sera solved the problem easily enough. “Mara and I will split off and grab someone, assuming you boys can findsomeone to help keep you intact?” Patrick and I glanced at each other.

“Uh, sure, Sera.” Patrick managed to look only marginally disappointed. “That should be fine.”

“Relax, we’ll be back for sixes.” Mara extended a fist toward Patrick. He grinned and punched his own fist into hers, surprisingly hard. They laughed together, then Sera and Mara split off. I blinked at the strange gesture. Must have been something Keras taught them. Seemed like his kind of thing.

“So…” Patrick glanced around. “We need a third. And so do they. What do you think?”

I pondered for a moment. “Sera is going to go ask Roland. Assuming he isn’t busy, that’ll net them a Diviner.”

I confirmed that plan with a glance in their direction — and yeah, they were heading straight for Roland.

That meant Roland wasn’t an option for us, which was a little bad, because I didn’t feel like I really knew anyone else. Sure, I recognized virtually everyone from the previous dueling class, including some good prospective matches like Kyra Dyson, Desmond Vyers, and Loria Marshall…but the three of them already seemed to be chatting with each other.

Rupert Kent was on his own, but there was absolutely zero chance I was going for that guy. I was half-surprised he’d graduated.

I saw someone that made me blink — a short, black- haired woman who carried a floor-length longbow. Normally, I didn’t have a good memory for strangers, but her appearance had burned itself into my memory in a way that only shared trauma could.

She’d been at the Winter Ball, in the guest section. She’d been one of the first people to break free of Mizuchi’s spells— and she’d fired glowing arrows of light at Mizuchi for the entire fight.

At the time, due to her position in the guest section, I’d assumed she’d been a guest herself — but from the second- year uniform she now wore, presumably she’d just been over there to talk to someone.

…Or maybe she really wasn’t a student, and she was here for our protection? Anyone who had broken free from Mizuchi as fast as she had must have been extraordinary by student standards, probably Sunstone-or-higher at the time the Winter Ball had occurred.

Maybe she’s a foreign student, like Jin, who got her attunement early? Or someone like Derek, that took her Judgment years early in another spire?She was a little on the pale side for a Valian, but not as extreme as Keras, and that didn’t mean anything. Mara was pale, too, after all. Black hair didn’t say anything, it was common everywhere.

I probably would have approached her out of sheer curiosity, but she already had a clear team. She stood with a girl with short coppery hair and a tall man in what looked like a stereotypical wizard outfit, complete with black robes and a wide-brimmed hat.

A quick glance at their group with Detect Aura showed me…nothing at all. Clear auras, like Quartz-level attuned would have.

There was absolutely no way that black-haired woman was a Quartz, unless she was hiding some other power source like a crystal mark, so that made me even more suspicious.

I’ll definitely keep an eye on them.

I glanced at the third-years, but I didn’t recognize any. Even if I had, though, I didn’t know any of the older students well enough to bother approaching them. If my old dorm chief or one of the people from the final exams had been there, I might have considered it, but...

Two or three minutes passed as I scanned the crowd, evaluating, before finally someone else took the initiativethat I lacked.

Someone I’d noticed, but deliberately avoided. “Greetings	and	felicitations!	I’ve	observed	that	youappear to lack a third team member at this time. Is that an accurate assessment?”

Iron-hair.

He’d been watching from toward the back of the crowd when we’d started, but I’d known he was there. I’d just been sort of hoping he wouldn’t notice me. This was, of course, unlikely, given that he’d been staring at me throughout every encounter we’d had.

…And there had been a surprising number of those encounters, given how short of a time period it had been since I’d first noticed him.

Sharing three classes with one person wasn’t that unlikely — Patrick and I had randomly ended up in three classes together last year, after all. But something about his level of interest made me wonder if our overlapping schedules were more than a mere coincidence.

Fortunately, Patrick’s usual bright and unflappable demeanor was enough to rescue me from the momentary awkwardness of the meeting. “We sure are! I’m Patrick Wayland-Cadence. I’m an Elementalist. You?”

Patrick extended a hand.

Iron-hair stared at it as if he’d never noticed Patrick’s presence until that moment, and also had never previously encountered a handshake.

After a moment, he took Patrick’s hand and shook it vigorously. “Patrick Wayland-Cadence! It’s such a pleasure to meet you. I understand that you’re a personal apprentice to Chancellor Meltlake?”

That drew some attention from the people around us. “That’s…uh, yeah, that’s right.” Patrick smiled. It wasn’tnecessarily a secret, but he didn’t like flaunting it, both out of humility and a good degree of social understanding that Ilacked. “I’m very lucky that she’s been kind enough to offer me some guidance.”

“Oh! I’m sure it’s very well-deserved! Everyone says such great things about your potential.” His eyes widened for a moment as he finally released Patrick’s hand. “Th…that sword! Where’d you get something like that?”

“Oh, this?” Patrick gave a proud smile. “This is Bright Reflection. It’s a replica of—”

“Dawnbringer! The Sacred Sword of Light! It’s such a fantastic copy. I’ve never seen one that looks this much like her before.”

There was something strange about iron-hair’s intensity and…wait.

Her?How many people knew that Dawnbringer was sapient? Alarm bells rang louder and louder in my mind.

“I’m sorry,” I cut in, “I didn’t catch your name. I’m Corin Cadence. An Enchanter.”

Iron-hair turned to me, his eyes meeting mine. “Oh, I know. I’ve been watching you for some time now!”

I blinked, not expecting that admission. “…You have?Why?”

“Oh, primarily because of your crystal m—”

My hand shot up faster than I’d expected it could to raise a finger in a “hush” gesture. His eyes widened in surprise, but he shut up quickly.

“That’s private,” I explained. “Understand?”

He blinked, then nodded once. I lowered my hand.

“I apologize for my improper conduct. Off to a bad start, aren’t I?” He gave a nervous laugh. “I, uh, hold on, let me change my stance a bit.”

A strange colloquialism, one I wasn’t familiar with. “Who are you?” I pressed.

“Oh, right, right.” He blinked. “Of course, forgive me. It’s not my name exactly, but you can call me Lute. And I’m, uh, a swordsman?”

I gave him a quizzical look. “Loot like taking things from someone, or Lute like the musical instrument?”

“Oh! How clever of you to quickly establish the double meaning. It’s both, but it’s written like the latter? And—”

“Your time is almost up,” Teft announced.

I winced. “Listen, we need to find a third team member, and…”

Lute looked at me hopefully. “Oh, please pick me! I won’t disappoint you. I mean, probably. I don’t actually know what your standards are for performance, but from an objective standpoint, compared to the other people here…I don’t think it’s likely that you’d find my abilities to be lacking. Not to be condescending, of course, or diminish from the abilities of anyone here, it’s just...”

I was impressed by his nervous rant’s scope, but I cut him off again. “Swordsman. Did you mean Swordmaster? Swordsman isn’t an attunement.”

Lute laughed nervously. “I suppose it isn’t. But I’m not supposed to…”

Detect Aura.

I glanced at him and saw an aura that was…iron-colored, like his hair.

That didn’t match any attunement color. It didn’t match anything I’d heard of, really, except…Something clicked. My eyes widened.

He’s not another serpent like Mizuchi, is he? He’s…I glanced at his side, noting once again that he wore an elaborate sword on his hip. No runes were visible while it was sheathed, but it had a very large white crystal in place of the pommel and a matching one in the crossguard.

His hands were gloved, but I thought I could see a hint of a stronger glow from his left.

“I’m not sure we can take that as an answer,” Patrick said awkwardly. “It’s okay if you can’t tell us here, but maybe you could whisper, or we could walk—”

Release Detect Aura. Transcendent Detect Aura.

His aura shifted into a brilliant mixture of a broad variety of colors. Some were unusual, like an iron aura that matched the shade of his hair. I suspected that was some kind of variety of metal mana, maybe, even if it didn’t match the traditional color scheme for a composite mana type.

More importantly, I did recognize an odd mixture of green and purple. It was obscure enough that I was able to pick it out immediately, since I was seeing it in three places at once — it was the same color that emanated from the crystal mark on my own hand.

And even more interestingly, his sword clearly had the same aura. The scabbard he was wearing had a strong blue sheen to it, suppressing other colors within.

Release Transcendent Detect Aura.

“It’s fine,” I declared. I gave Patrick a meaningful look. “I think we’re going to get along with Lute just fine.”

Lute looked like I’d just given him a birthday gift he’d always wanted but never thought to ask for. “You…really?”

“Really,” I said. “But after class, we’re going to need to have a talk.”

“I would love that! I have so much I need to ask you about! You both have such important—”

“It’s time,” Lord Teft declared. “Students, write down your teams. Then,” he gave a wicked grin, “we’ll see if you got out of shape over the winter.”

***We wrote down our team. I eyed the competition. Obviously, Sera and Mara’s team were a known quantity.

I wasn’t sure if Roland had something beyond a standard Carnelian-level Diviner attunement — a quick glance didn’t show me any other attunement auras — but the other two would be difficult to deal with. Sera’s mana pool still wasn’t sufficient to handle long engagements against Patrick orme, but it didn’t necessarily need to be. Mara was a Sunstone with tons of mana to spare and an attunement that was extremely combat heavy. I anticipated that Mara would try to handle any front-line combat on her own, while Sera and Roland would take strategic shots from behind.

I was less worried about most of the other second-year teams, although there was one team that sported another Sunstone — a tall black-skinned man carrying a longbow that was almost his full height. From the color of the auras of his teammates, they weren’t far off from Sunstone either, making them exceptional for second years. It was unusual to see multiple people with bows in the class — they weren’t very popular in Valia.

Might be more foreign attunements in this class than last year. That’ll add some variety, at least.

The absolute biggest threats, as far as I was concerned, were the third-year teams. I counted eight Sunstone auras out of the twelve of them, and the others weren’t far off. One of the four teams was solid Sunstone. Even with all our advantages, I didn’t think we’d be able to crack that.

Not playing fair, at any rate.

“Is this everyone?” Teft lifted his paper. No responses meant confirmation. “Good. Line up. I’m handing out new shield sigils before you begin. Your standard school-issued ones might have sufficed for the first year, but as I’m sure you’ve realized, an attuned’s offensive abilities scale faster than their defensive ones. With Sunstone-level fighters, we’ll need to take additional precautions.”

Some of the students murmured a bit in the aftermath of that, and I realized after hearing some repetition of “Sunstone” that not everyone had the ability to perceive the auras that I did, and thus, not everyone was aware that we had nearly a dozen Sunstone-level combatants in the class.

We lined up. I got my new sigil. Teft also handed each of us a device to clip onto it that I recognized as one of thesafety devices used to teleport people out of the arena automatically when the sigil was depleted.

I frowned as I examined the runes.

“…Can I use my own sigil instead of this one?” I asked.

Teft shook his head. “This is a significantly stronger sigil than the first-year one with four times the capacity.”

“I know.” I nodded, then pulled off one of my own custom sigils. “It’s a downgrade for me. See?”

I heard some murmurs from the people behind me in the line and instantly regretted doing this in front of other people.

Teft took the sigil, glancing it over with a curious look. “You crafted this?”

“I did.” I nodded.

“Then it is a part of your personal power as an Enchanter, and thus, approved for use in duels. You’ll still need to attach the clip.”

“Understood, thank you.” I nodded hastily. “And, uh, can the rest of my team—”

“Don’t push your luck, Cadence. You can use your own crafted sigils, but the rest of the class uses standard ones. Unless we have any other enterprising Enchanters?”

No replies to that.

I walked away with a strange combination of embarrassment and pride.

*** “Combatants, enter the arena!”

I watched as Sera, Mara, and Roland entered the arena from the left side.

…And no one entered from the opposite side.

Are they invisible, maybe? Or… Oh, no.

We’ve been misdirected again, haven’t we?Lord Teft smiled as he overlooked the arena. “Today, we’re warming up with a classic team building exercise.”

Sera was already inching along the arena wall to the right, clearly having established the change in challenge.

“Before fighting your opponents, you must first understand yourselves. And, to that end, your first match will be a free-for-all against the other members of your own team. No need to bow, just begin.”

Sera snapped her fingers. A wall of ice shot up in front of her immediately, then she opened her mouth to begin an incantation.

Mara rushed Sera in a blur, leaping to clear the ice wall in a single bound. Her hands blurred as she punched a pair of bursts of mana from Roland’s dueling canes out of the air, then she landed with feet against the back of Sera’s wall and kicked off it, launching herself straight at Sera with fists gleaming.

Vanniv met Mara in mid-air, grabbing her fists mid-swing. “Oh, hello!” He swiveled in mid-air and hurled Mara backward, straight at the stone arena wall. She course- corrected in mid-air, landing with her feet against the stone wall like she’d done with the wall of ice, then kicking back off of it.

Sera conjured a hail of shards of ice as Mara descended, forcing Mara to cross her arms to block. Mara’s shroud flashed and extended outward, dispersing much of the force from the icicles before they could make contact with her barrier, but the slivers that connected still caused minor cracks.

Roland watched the ongoing exchange cautiously from the opposite side of the wall, lifting his canes at first with a look like he was going to try to blow through the wall, then shaking his head and walking all the way to the opposite side of the arena.

As Mara landed, she kicked the ground, sending a blade- like flash of energy across the stone. Sera’s eyes widened fractionally as she blasted herself to the side with a gust ofwind to avoid the cutting force, then stumbled backward and raised her hands as Mara charged at blistering speed.

Vanniv hurled a blast of lightning at Mara from behind. Mara’s fist flashed backward and knocked it out of the air without even looking at it.

That only bought Sera a second, but she used it well, jumping and then soaring upward.

Flight is going to take a lot of mana out of her, and—A bolt of mana from Roland clipped Sera from the side as soon as she cleared over the wall. Sera sent Roland a glare that was colder than the ice she’d conjured, but he simply shrugged and then opened fire again.

Sera wheeled to the side to avoid the incoming spray of bolts from Roland’s two canes, raising her hands to begin conjuring a larger attack. “Spirit of eternal flame, warden of the western wind—”

That was new.

Unfortunately, it also wasn’t fast enough.

Mara couldn’t fly, but she didn’t need to. With a burst of enhancement, she launched herself into the air — then her boots flashed and she ran forward in mid-air and slammed a fist straight into Sera’s gut.

I winced at the impact. Sera’s shroud and the shield sigils dampened it, but it still looked like it hurt. The cracks spreading across her shield showed that it was a much more significant blow than what Sera had managed to hit Mara with.

Sera flew backward — and Mara simply kept running in mid-air, pulling back her fist to prepare for another swing the moment Sera stabilized.

The levitation boots from our spire run last year. I’d almost forgotten about them. Patrick has flying boots, too, now, and Sera can fly with her own magic. I’m falling behind in aerial mobility. Hm.

Sera clapped her hands. A blast of omnidirectional wind both neutralized the latest incoming bolts of mana fromRoland and sent Mara flying backward.

Then with a snap of Sera’s fingers, Mara plummeted to the arena floor.

Mara hit the ground hard, more cracks showing in her shield. As she bent her legs to jump, she found her legs frozen to the ground by a sudden burst of ice from behind.

Mara turned her head.

Vanniv gave her a little wave. “This is really quite unfair, isn’t it? Why, even against me alone, what chance does either—ow!”

A pair of bolts from Roland smashed into one of Vanniv’s wings. It didn’t do any obvious damage, but he did list to one side in mid-air. “That was very rude!”

As Vanniv conjured a bolt of lightning to hurl at Roland, Sera shot upward further, strain showing on her face.

Mara grimaced, took a breath. Then, her entire body began to glow.

“Up we go.”

There was a loud crack as Mara exploded upward, ice splintering around her.

Sera pointed downward. “Wall.”

A wall of ice appeared in mid-air and dropped straight toward Mara.

Mara let out a roar, pulled back an arm, and punched right through it.

Sera’s eyes widened just slightly. She only had an instant before Mara reached her, and she whispered something just before Mara punched straight through her chest.

My eyes widened in terror at the sight of Mara’s arm passing straight through my sister’s body—Then I processed what had happened. There was no blood, no injury, no damaged shroud or shield.

Sera passed straight through Mara, solidified, and then put a hand on Mara’s back.

“Freeze.”

Mara was instantly enveloped in a block of ice and dropped from the sky.

When the ice hit the ground, it shattered—and Mara’s shield shattered right along with it.

She vanished from the arena.

Roland dodged a blast from Vanniv, took one look at Mara vanishing and Sera spinning toward him with a murderous grin, then raised both hands. “I concede.”

And with that, the first match of the season was over.

***“That was amazing!” Patrick cheered from the stands. “Way to go, Sera!”

I clapped right along with him.

“Fascinating. Miss Cadence was clearly inferior in overall power to Miss Callahan, but by exploiting a combination of misdirection and the weakness in her opponent’s shroud at close	range,	she	was	able	to	take	the	advantage. Incorporeality is an unusual power for a Summoner to have at her level. I will need to inquire as to how she obtained it.” I knew the answer to that, of course: Susan the Spectre.

Sera must have Invoked Susan to go incorporeal, either when she’d whispered right before she was hit, or perhaps she’d performed the invocation before the match even started and just cast the incorporeality spell at that point. I wasn’t sure exactly how that worked.

I was a little surprised that Sera was showing off one of her strongest tricks in such an early match, though.

She probably has something to prove, I realized. She was nearly incapacitated for the entire half of the last year, and she was pretty embarrassed by her performance. Winning an early match like this helps show that she still belongs in a dueling class.

… I’m not sure that was the wisest strategy in the long run.

I could see the third-year students in the crowd watching Sera  intently  now,  scrutinizing.  They’d  be  working  oncountermeasures for her ability to go incorporeal now that they were aware of it, as would any of the other high-level students present.

…But maybe that was part of Sera’s plan, too.

If that strange, aborted incantation was any indication, she still had a few more tricks up her sleeve.

I didn’t have a chance to question her about it right away. Sera’s team went straight to the recovery room, the next team cycled in, and we shifted our focus to watching the next match.

Three more matches came and went…and then it was time for me to step into the arena against my retainer…and the strange swordsman with iron hair.

***We were familiar with the idea of what we were doing now, which gave me a chance to plan.

Unfortunately, that plan was limited by my absolute lack of any information about our opponent’s capabilities. My best guess was “something like Keras or possibly one of the sacred swords, but with transcendence mana”, which was not in any way encouraging.

So, I went with something basic and reliable — flagrantly cheating.

“Begin!”

The moment Teft made his announcement from outside the arena, I began to form mana threads. If I could subtly extend one to touch the clip on Lute’s shield sigil, I could teleport him straight out of the arena without any need for extended combat.

Admittedly, that would limit my ability to learn about his capabilities for future matches, but I could do that in other ways. For the moment, I wanted to win.

I needed a win.

Patrick flew upward immediately, trying to get distance. That was probably a wise move, given that I was moreadept at close range than he was and Lute had identified himself as a swordsman.

Lute watched Patrick soar upward without any obvious concern. While he watched Patrick’s movement, I subtly dropped my teleportation anchor on the arena floor. I didn’t know if they would see or hear it, but I hoped not.

Patrick reached upward, beginning to conjure lightning between his hands. He didn’t hurl the attack immediately, however. He glanced down to watch both Lute and myself, seemingly waiting for a good opening to strike.

Not a bad strategy.

Lute, however, showed no sign of concern. Instead of drawing the ornate sword on his hip, Lute simply stuck his hands in his pockets and leaned up against one of the arena walls.

A trap, obviously. If he’s against the walls, maybe he has some ability to reshape them?I cautiously extended my shrouds to overlap my shield sigils, much as Mara had. I couldn’t do it with the same level of finesse that Mara had, and I’d have to dedicate a bit of concentration to maintaining it or the shrouds would “snap” back into position, but it was a good tactic to steal. Then, I took a few steps closer, dueling cane raised. I regretted that I didn’t have my transference sword anymore, given that both Selys-Lyann and Mr. Stabbington were too dangerous to use in practice matches like this one. Eventually, I’d have to make some kind of “dueling safe” weapon, but for the moment, this would have to do.

Lute eyed my approach without concern. “Please, go ahead and team up against me. No need to take the time to discuss it, that’s the obvious conclusion.”

I glanced upward at Patrick to see his response, just for an instant—Then Lute was in front of me, throwing an uppercut at my chin.

Jump!I blasted myself backward purely on instinct, causing the punch to merely clip my chin rather than impacting directly. Even so, the glancing blow ripped through my shroud and left a long crack in my shield as it manifested.

When I finished sliding backward from the jump spell, Lute was standing casually again, his hands back in his pockets.

“Hm.” He nodded, more to himself than to me. “Reaction speed is satisfactory.”

Patrick threw a blast of lightning at Lute from the sky. Lute stepped out of the way just far enough for the voltaic charge to slam into the ground next to him.

I raised my cane and followed Patrick’s lightning with a series of bolts of my own. Each time, Lute simply stepped out of the way or shifted his body to allow them to pass harmlessly by him.

As he simply tilted his head to the side to avoid my last blast, I charged in, extending the blade from my dueling caneLute’s right arm blurred and slapped the cane right out of my hand.

I blinked. That didn’t usually happen.

Then I was dancing backward as Lute’s other arm swept upward, projecting a blade of pure essence.

That technique, at least, was more than familiar.

As I shifted to the side, I swept my own right hand horizontally, forming an essence blade in mid-motion. Lute’s eyes widened in surprise for the first time, but he raised his own essence blade and parried my strike easily.

“Fascinating.” We pressed our blades against each other for a moment before he gave a slight push, throwing me back a step.

While I stumbled, he lunged, nearly jamming his essence blade straight through my right shoulder. Ducking it would have been obvious, I’d learned my essence blade from adifferent kind of fighter, and I stole another technique right along with it.

…Or a rough approximation of it, at least.

Haste. Accelerated Computation.

I raised my blade as if to parry, then, in the heartbeat before our aura blades met, I let my own essence blade vanish. Lute’s blade passed straight through the air without the resistance he was expecting.

Incoming blade, angle—I twisted to avoid the incoming blade and lunged at the same time, reforming my own essence blade in motion.

It was a perfectly-executed counter, one with the kind of beautiful timing and precision that I often strived for in practice, but rarely managed outside of a controlled environment. Most students our age would have been caught off-guard—“Huh.”

Lute caught my aura blade in his free hand.

Let me remind you that my aura blade technique isn’t solid. The composition is a mixture of grey mana and transference — the latter of which gives an impression of solidity by repelling things that make contact with it. Anything touching it should have been cut, deflected, or both—But Lute simply held it.

I might have been truly surprised if I hadn’t seen someone who could do that sort of thing before.

If I’d suspected some similarity between Lute and Keras before, this all but confirmed it.

That confirmation was no comfort. Not when Lute’s lips twisted upward in the kind of confident smile that told me that something very bad was about to happen if I didn’t get out of the way.

I didn’t get out of the way.

When Lute shoved my sword downward and lunged in, an open palm aimed at the center of my chest, I calculated thetime it would take for impact—Then whipped my mana threads straight at his shield sigil.

Lute was gone a second later.

…But not because I’d made contact and teleported him out of the arena. No, he’d reacted to my incoming threads and vanished backward, reappearing half-way across the arena with a look of extreme curiosity on his face.

“What were those? And that blade making technique. How did you—” His eyes widened fractionally. “Of course. I’ve neglected an extremely obvious connection, haven’t I? If you’re a wielder—”

Patrick clapped his hands.

A gust of wind slammed into Lute from behind — the first attack that seemed to actually connect with him.

Lute didn’t stumble forward so much as “walk with the impact”, but that still took him forward right into where a sphere of lightning was manifesting in mid-air. Lute pulled back an arm, his aura blade ready, to cleave through it, but the orb detonated before he had a chance.

The first cracks appeared in Lute’s shield.

…And his expression went dark.

The change was instantaneous and jarring. His good humor vanished, his eyes narrowing as he trembled, turning upward.

“You hit me.”

Patrick grinned, raising his hands to conjure a javelin of lightning in each. “You bet! That’s what you get for ignoring me.”

“That behavior will be corrected.” Lute reached up and pushed his glasses backward. “As will yours.”

Patrick hurled the lightning — or, at least, he tried to.

Before he managed to finish either throw, Lute swung his essence blade in mid-air—And Patrick’s shield snapped.

There was nothing. No projectile, no clear source of the damage. Just a swing in mid-air that seemed to cause arbitrary damage to a distant target.

How—I had no time to process it.

Before Patrick had even vanished from the destruction of his shield, Lute was swinging in my direction.

I didn’t know what he was doing, but if I couldn’t even see it, I couldn’t block or dodge it with any degree of reliability.

Without the time to speak, I let my mana threads do the work.

Return.

A thread connected to my circlet activated the item, teleporting me to where I’d dropped the teleportation anchor near the arena entrance.

I reappeared just in time to see — and gawk at — the massive cut that had torn through a chunk of the arena wall. That stone was heavily enchanted. I knew because I’d seen	the	runes	while	working	on	the	tile	setup	with Professor Vellum for the arena matches in the previous year.

Doing that kind of damage with an invisible, near-instant swing…I tightened my jaw.

If that was anything like how Keras used his disintegration powers, I absolutely could not afford to get hit by it. There was no guarantee my shields and shroud would be enough to protect me.

I was half-way to considering conceding the match when Lute turned toward me, a quizzical look on his face. “A teleportation item. I didn’t see it. Another miscalculation.” He shook his head, then ran a hand through his hair. “Father would be disappointed.”

Those words hit me harder than I expected in spite of the fact that he was clearly talking about himself.

Father would be disappointed if I quit this match — or any match — before finishing it.

My hands balled into fists.

But you know what? I don’t really care what he thinks.

Not anymore. “I—”

Lord Teft spoke before I had a chance. “Time is up! Next group.”

…I’d...forgotten there was a time limit.

Lute frowned fractionally, turned briefly to Teft as if to protest, then shook his head. His essence blade vanished, his apparent cheer reappearing as he approached me.

“That,” Lute said, “was a rare surprise. I will be watching you closely, Corin Cadence.”

As Lute left the arena whistling an unfamiliar tune, I wondered if I had made a terrible mistake.

***After the match, I gathered my things and made my way back to the stands. Patrick and I met up to discuss the fight briefly, but Lute didn’t rejoin us — he simply wandered off somewhere after our battle concluded.

I wasn’t sure what to make of that.

We watched the rest of the matches for the day, but I remained distracted by what I had seen.

Who was Lute? And, perhaps more importantly, what was he?I considered asking Keras, of course, but that would have to wait. As I exited the class area after the final match, I was interrupted.

“Just a moment, Master Cadence.”

I froze, my shoulders sagging. Apparently, Lord Teft wasn’t going to let me leave the first day of Dueling Class without questioning me after all.

I wasn’t in the mood for it, but I turned around, ready to deal with whatever form of absurd hazing he had in store this time.

Wordlessly, Patrick stopped right next to me. I didn’t say anything, but I tried to give him a weak smile of gratitude. As most of the students filed out of the area, I was pretty sure that Sera and Mara had also slowed down their walking, but they didn’t stay right next to me like Patrick did.

“A word in private, if you would?” Lord Teft beckoned toward me.

Mentally, I checked through my available defensive equipment. I didn’t have Selys-Lyann on me — it was, as far as I knew, still banned from being used in classrooms — but I was hardly unprepared if he decided to do something. Honestly, if he attacked me, I’d probably just teleport out of the area.

I was tired of being pushed around. Very, very tired.

“It’s fine,” I told Patrick. It wasn’t fine, and he must have sensed that, given his questioning look in response. “I’ll catch up soon.”

Patrick hesitated for a moment, then nodded and gave me the fakest smile I’d ever seen on his face. “Sure, Corin. See you soon.”

He went to meet the others.

Teft watched the crowd depart, then turned and nodded to me. “Good. We should have a discussion.”

“Is this where you tell me that an Enchanter has no place in your class? Because I figured we’d resolved that last—”

He raised a hand. “Stop. It’s nothing of the sort. The opposite, in fact.”

I blinked, legitimately caught off-guard. “What do you mean?”

Teft sighed, leaning heavily on his cane. He looked older, then. Worn, vulnerable, in a way I’d never seen. “Do you know why I was hard on you when you first joined my class, Master Cadence?”

“That seems fairly straightforward. You didn’t think an Enchanter could keep up. I suppose it’s more tolerable nowthat I have a second attunement, but…”

Lord Teft pulled off a glove, exposing a rune. One that should have been exceedingly obvious.

A Sunstone-level Enchanter mark. “…You…you’re…”

I’d always assumed that Teft simply had developed some kind of spell for recharging shield sigils. It was possible for people to recharge items without being an Enchanter, if they had the right mana types.

But those teleporting clips for the sigils, and the higher- capacity sigils themselves…What if he’d been the one who had made them?Teft gave me a fractional smile. “Once upon a time, there was a freshly-attuned Enchanter that wished with all his heart to be a duelist. During his first year at Lorian Heights, he joined the dueling class. Throughout the entire year, he faced ridicule. Sabotage. It was half-way through the year when older students began challenging him, skirting the rules of fairness to inflict as much injury as possible.”

I frowned. “But this student…he persisted…”

“No.” Teft said with sudden anger. “After someone plunged a blade through his hand, his attunement ceased to function, and he quit. Rendered useless, he barely managed to finish his first year at all. And, in despair, he took a second Judgment between the years.”

I was suddenly more attentive. “…And earned a Shaper mark?”

“Indeed. But he was starting over — his Enchanter mark no longer worked, and his Shaper mark was Quartz-level. He never rejoined the dueling class. His will to fight had been broken at the hands of his peers.”

Teft absently slipped the glove back on his hand, but not before I noted the large scar on the other side of his palm, where a blade might have once passed through.

“Then…when you challenged me on the first day…”

“There could be no doubt about your abilities, Master Cadence. If I had not tested you, others would have, in more brutal fashion. Perhaps it was unkind to put you under such pressure without warning, and for that, you have my apologies. In my haste to prevent something familiar from happening again, I made assumptions. I did not know about your background to the degree I believed. If I did…”

“What do you mean, my background?”

Teft’s hands tightened around the top of his cane. “A father who publicly challenges his son to a duel is no father at all.”

The statement was so clear, so definitive, that I momentarily froze upon hearing it. It was so unambiguous, so certain, that I almost couldn’t believe it had come from him.

It had been strange enough getting support from Keras. But for someone like Teft, a local, a noble, a Shaper himself…I had no idea what to say.

So, predictably, I said nothing at all.

After a moment of silence, Teft nodded, more to himself then to me. “There has been significant discussion of your upcoming duel among the higher-born families. Most, even among my own house, do not agree with my stance. I cannot overstate my disappointment in that fact. As I discussed the situation with others, I learned more context about your father, your family, and your training. Things that put your previous decisions — and some of your injuries— into perspective.”

Absently, I reached upward and traced the line of a small scar under my jaw, one of the few that was visible while I was fully clothed. It was almost gone now, four years after it had been inflicted and with healing having treated the worst of it. But I remembered when my jaw had been broken. I remembered the taste of blood as the cane slammed intomy face and rattled my teeth. It wasn’t the type of childhood memory that one easily forgot.

“…What’s this about?” I asked hastily, trying to brush the memory aside.

“Forgive me, I should have been more direct. And I apologize if I have overreached with my attempts to understand the situation. But…young Master Cadence, I would like to offer you my assistance.”

“Assist me how, exactly?” I frowned. “You can’t expect to fight on my behalf.”

He shook his head. “No, nothing of the sort. I am aware you would not accept such an offer, just as you turned down the foreigner’s offer for assistance. I must admit, I was surprised both by his offer and your refusal, however. You must be aware that Sir Selyrian, in spite of his questionable values, would have been far better prepared for such a duel than you are.”

I briefly processed the fact that he’d used the title “Sir” for Keras, which was strange, but probably technically accurate — Keras was a knight in his homeland, after all. I couldn’t get distracted thinking about that, though.

“It’s my fight. I won’t let someone else step in.” I tried to sound resolute, but I tasted the blood in my mouth again as I spoke.

“Good.” Teft said simply. “That is more likely to bring the issue to a permanent close, one way or another. As your dueling teacher, it is my obligation to ensure you are prepared for any battle you must fight. And…as someone who remembers what it was like to be a young Enchanter, I have other reasons to want to help you fight.”

“Then…you think I can win?” I asked.

“Only under the narrowest of possible circumstances could you manage a win against a Citrine-level Shaper. Fortunately,” he smiled more genuinely than before, “it is much easier to defeat a Citrine-level Shaper when you have another to practice against.”

Everything finally clicked. “You want to play the role of my father in training simulations.”

“I might take issue with the phrasing you used, but yes.”

I nodded slowly. There was potential there. “Would that work? Not all Shapers fight the same way.”

“Master Cadence, do you really think there are enough Citrine-level Shapers that are both involved in the profession of dueling that I would be unfamiliar with Magnus Cadence’s dueling preferences? Beyond that, I am certain that you are familiar with many elements of his techniques, both from your previous training and observing him. Memory crystals of his public bouts are also available. I will not be able to serve as a perfect proxy, of course — there are fundamentals in our abilities, equipment, and style that are too distinct. But I believe that training against a live opponent with an analogous skillset would serve you better as practice than simply training against your friends or summoned monsters.”

He was absolutely right.

I still hesitated. Involving Lord Teft would add an additional layer of political complexity to the situation, especially if others found out…and they would. Beyond that…I just didn’t know him that well, and I didn’t like the idea of owing him a debt. It seemed like he was being honest, and if he really was an Enchanter himself, he had his reasons to help me.

How had he gotten his damaged attunement fixed? It was Sunstone-level now, meaning he’d gotten it working, but perhaps it had taken years, since it was behind his Citrine-level Shaper mark.

I dismissed that thought as currently unimportant.

For now, I had a decision to make…but one with an obvious answer. I bowed my head. “It would be my honor to train with you, Lord Teft.”

“Good. Let us discuss your training schedule.”

…This wasn’t going to be fun, but it was the best chance I had.

