CHAPTER XVIII – A HOUSE UNITED

House meetings weren’t exactly commonplace, but the brutal mauling of several students — and the threat of worse in the future — was enough reason to warrant one.

So, we all gathered around Derek’s huge pair of kitchen tables and sat to talk.

“First off,” Derek opened, “have any of you had any encounters with these people yet? Threats, actual attacks?” After a pause, he added, “offers of membership?”

“Membership?” Patrick gaped at Derek. “You think they’re going to try to recruit us?”

“Not you, honestly.” Derek shook his head. “But Corin and Sera? Not unlikely. They’re nobles from a well-known family. Cecily, too, I suppose.”

Cecily looked down and away, but remained silent. “…You think they’d want to recruit us?” Cecily asked.

“But…I don’t even understand what they want!”

Sera winced. “To people who are born believing that they are a superior breed, any hint of others being raised to equality is a threat. They’d expect you to be like-minded, since you were born into a noble house. And people like me…” She made a pained expression. “…They’d think of me as half-breed trash, unworthy, but expect me to support them regardless. Because, as someone born into service, I should know my place and serve my betters.”

“It’s awful, but she’s not wrong.” Derek shrugged. “You’re exactly the type of people that they tend to look for. You have the right skin, the right eyes, the right names. You fit the archetype of the classic Valian, one willing to fight to the death to prevent foreigners from taking what belongs to them.”

I raised an eyebrow at him. “Little strange for you to put the focus on us, Derek. We might be visible to these people,but not as well-known as a founding family. Like, say, House Hartigan.”

Derek didn’t even bother debating, he just nodded amiably. “You’re right. House Hartigan is exactly the type of family that would be involved in this sort of thing. But before you get any suspicions, no, I’m not in any way involved with them, nor have they approached me. The fact that they haven’t implies that they’re aware of my political leanings, they’re afraid of me, or both.”

“Meaning?” I asked.

“Meaning…that whole blood thing? I don’t have it, and they know that. Adopted. Don’t want to talk about it. Aside from that, they know I’ve been fairly outspoken about wanting to restructure our whole system of government. But let’s not get sidetracked. I haven’t had any contact with the Sons of Valia yet. Have any of you?”

A series of headshakes from around the group.

“Good.” Derek looked a little relieved. “That’s better than I’d hoped. That said, we should expect that unless they’re stopped quickly, this is going to ramp up. Corin, Sera, and Cecily especially should expect them to reach out. Take note of names, faces, anything you can — but don’t even think about trying to pull any infiltration work. None of you is suited for it.”

“Hey, that’s not fair,” Sera interjected. “I could be perfectly—”

“No,” Derek snapped, then winced. “Sorry. Shouldn’t have raised my voice. But these are dangerous people, Sera. Sure, you can talk a good game, but what happens when they’re hitting you with compulsion spells to speak the truth? What about if they root through your memories?”

She blanched at that. “You think they’d go that far?” “Please. That’s kid stuff. If I was in their shoes, I’d havesomething prepped like Corin’s little compulsion ring,” he shot me an annoyed look, presumably still unhappy with the name  I’d  given  it,  “before  introducing  any  prospectivemembers to anyone important. Secret organizations don’t survive without basic precautions.”

“S’pose you’d know,” Mara jabbed.

Sera raised an eyebrow at Mara, then turned to glower at Derek. “I think it may be time for some openness, Derek.”

Derek looked at Keras, seemingly for help. Keras shrugged. “They were always going to figure it out eventually. It’s not like you’re doing much to hide it.”

I glanced back and forth between them, thinking about all their late nights out on the town. Visits to casinos, trips to the Unclaimed Lands, strange political leanings. Keras’ suspicious behavior during the train robbery. Jin’s presence at the scene.

I just spat it out. “Derek. You’re the Blackstone Bandit, aren’t you?”

Silence around the tables.

Derek turned to me, seeming to consider for a moment. Then he waved his hand in a “sort of” motion. “Not currently. But…sort of?”

Cecily audibly gasped. I was a little flummoxed, too. Literally no one else seemed surprised.

I glanced around. “Did everyone know other than Cecily and me?”

Some abashed looks from around the room.

“How?!” I shook my head. “Did you tell everyone else first?”

“Didn’t tell any of us, I don’t think,” Mara spoke up. “But I saw him for a sec on the train top. Not much of a disguise, if I’m bein’ honest. Recognized Tavare and Delsys. They’re hard to miss. Keras tried to get me to scoot before I figured it out, but…” She shrugged. “Only took a glance, really.”

“Sorry.” Keras winced. “Didn’t mean to deceive you, but…”

“S’fine, forgiven. I know why you did it.” She gave him a nod. “Little less clear on meanin’ of the whole affair, though.”

“Do…we really need to do this right now?” Derek covered his face with his hands.

“Yes,” Sera insisted. “I think some openness would be a pretty good idea right now, considering the circumstances.”

Derek winced. “You don’t understand, it’s…”

“Why?” Cecily’s voice was nearly silent, but it still cut straight through the room. “…Why would you rob our train? Why would you scare us like that?”

I flinched.

Derek’s mouth opened, then closed again, his usual wit absent.

I felt a little bad for him. Not a lot, but a little. Enough that I decided it would be useful to clarify something. “It wasn’t a train robbery.”

The room turned toward me.

“You mentioned your suspicions about that on the way home. Jin hinted at it?”

“And the direction everyone was going. I think I’ve got it sorted. It wasn’t a robbery — it was a rescue mission. For—” “I’m going to stop you right there.” Derek raised a hand. “You’re right. We were saving a prisoner, and yes, I’m sure you’ve figured out who and why. I’m happy to confess my own involvement. Yes, I was the Blackstone Bandit that day.

No, you don’t need to know who was with me or who we were breaking out of the train.”

“I feel like that’s pretty important,” Sera cut in. “If it was someone related to this whole Sons of Valia affair…”

“No.” Derek shook his head. “It’s unrelated. They were from Caelford, okay? Someone being shipped back home for punishment in their own nation. No Sons of Valia stuff. Now, can we get back to that?”

“I’d really like some clarity on your involvement with the Blackstone Bandits first,” I pointed out.

“Fine, fine. Just briefly, though.” Derek sighed, putting his hands  on  the  table.  “The  Blackstone  Bandits  are  aninternational organization that runs counter to several organized crime groups — most notably Haven Securities.”

“The international bank?” Cecily blinked. “They’re…an organized crime group?”

“They’re controlled by one. Before you ask, we have no affiliation at all with the servants of the Tyrant in Gold or the ‘real’ Blackstone Assassin. The original ‘Blackstone Bandit’ named herself that because of her direct opposition to Haven Securities. Kind of a nod to the rivalry between the Blackstone Assassin and Aayara Haven, who Haven Securities supposedly draws their lineage from.”

“Her?” I asked. “Who is the original Blackstone Bandit, then?”

“You don’t need to know that. Bottom line is that there are several Blackstone Bandits at any given time now. This allows them to operate in several countries, compartmentalize information, and makes it possible for the myth to continue even if one Blackstone Bandit is caught. I’ve been affiliated with the organization for years, but I’m not in the core leadership right now. I’ve been ‘the’ Blackstone Bandit on a few occasions.”

I tightened my jaw. “Did you know about the Blackstone Bandits that were following me? Were you leading me in the wrong direction on purpose?”

“Honestly didn’t know about that until later. Someone else in the organization approved it. I’m not involved in much of the local day-to-day management. Wouldn’t have allowed them to put someone on you if I’d known.”

I felt a little better after he said that, but I still wasn’t happy. I wasn’t really sure I could trust that he was being honest, but breaking the ring out seemed like it would be an extreme response, so I didn’t. “Fine. Derek works with the Blackstone Bandits. And…most of you had already figured that out.”

Sera shrugged. “Wasn’t hard to piece together if you’re paying attention. Especially if you were paying attention toKeras’ story about his own Blackstone Bandit days.”

Derek shot Keras a hard look. “You told them about that?”

“I told them a funny anecdote about a date night with Ravenshade!” Keras put up his hands defensively. “That shouldn’t have given much away…did it?”

“I mean, if you consider the timing of the Blackstone Bandit disappearing from Edria, and how it coincides with certain other people returning to Valia, and you consider that there was a teenaged girl with Summoner powers trying to help out while they were missing—”

“Wait, what are you talking about there?” Derek looked startled.

“You didn’t tell Derek your story?” Sera raised an eyebrow at Keras. “And neither did she? Ooh.”

“Look, I didn’t think she’d appreciate it if he knew she was involved. They were just kids at the time, and…”

“I’m sorry, who are we talking about?” I asked. “Are there other Blackstone Bandits we need to worry about? How many layers does this go?”

“Can…we just stop?” Patrick cut in, pleading. “I…know this is all important, like, in terms of knowing about each other. But I really, really can’t deal with all this cloak and dagger right now. I need us to just…be a family, a little? Focus on good things, and the future?”

We all looked a little abashed at that.

“Sorry, Patrick.” Sera reached across the table, giving his hand a comforting squeeze. “You’re right, this isn’t the time. We’ll stop.” She glanced around the table. “Refocusing. I think we’re all on the same page about wanting to do something about these Sons of Valia.”

“Definitely.” I nodded to her, then turned to Derek. “Now that we know about your…affiliations, can they help us?”

“Yes.” He nodded firmly, looking a little relieved at the shift in focus. “I can’t disclose much. I don’t know much yet,to be honest. But I’m going to check in with some contacts soon. Then, we’ll go on the hunt.”

“Any way we can help with that?” Mara asked.

“Thank you, but this is delicate work, and they’ll put seasoned people on it. Even I won’t be doing much directly— I’m too visible. Too well-known. Keras and I will probably do some physical sweeps of the city, looking at likely locations for attacks and seeing if we can catch anyone, but it’s not worth your time to get involved on that side of things.”

“Think we can figure out what’s worth our own time, if you don’t mind me sayin’ so.”

“Let me rephrase, then — it’s too dangerous for you to go alone, and you’d slow the two of us down. But,” he amended before Mara could look too upset, “if we find one of their bases of operations, maybe we can bring you in before we strike.”

Mara looked a little appeased by that, but it only worried me.

What would they do if they found these people? Kill them?I considered asking, but I wasn’t sure I was ready for the answer.

Instead, I had to ask something else. Something important.

“What can we do to help right now?”

Derek turned to me. “Keep an eye out for things that seem off. Report back.”

“There has to be more than that.”

“Protests,” Sera suggested. “I’m certain we’ll start to see some organized soon. Attend and support them. Keep an eye out for the people who are the most vulnerable.”

“I…I’m not really big on crowds—”

Sera sighed. “Corin. I know you have your issues to struggle with and I respect that, but at a certain point…”

I grimaced. “I…I’ll see what I can do. Maybe there’s a way I can do something from a legal standpoint? Aren’t there…laws against this sort of thing?”

Mara snorted. “S’pose there have to be arm choppin’ laws, but you aren’t gonna see many Sons of Valia in chains. They’re the ones payin’ for the iron, after all.”

“…I’m sure there have to be other nobles that aren’t sympathetic to what the Sons of Valia are doing,” I mumbled uncertainly.

“Of course there are,” Sera replied. “Plenty. Most of them simply won’t get involved. They’ll just reassure their low- born friends that they’re ‘one of the good ones’ and never would do anything to hurt them. Then, they’ll stand by on the sides and watch things play out, sleeping comfortably until their servants wake them for breakfast.”

I frowned. “That’s a bit extreme, don’t you think?”

“Can you claim that you’ve been any different? That you’ve done any more?”

I blinked. “…But…but…nothing like this was happening before!”

Sera gave a bitter laugh. “Are you joking? Take a minute and think, Corin. Really think about that, for just a moment. Keras was arrested for contradicting the scriptures. How many people do you think have been treated worse and haven’t been able to fight their way out of an entire country? How many ‘heretics’ do you think just disappear, or worse? And Mara told you about her childhood — did you ever do anything other than nod and agree? Did you ever consider actually looking into Rupert’s family, and if they’d threatened or abused anyone else? Did you ever—”

Mara raised a hand. “That’s enough, Sera. Corin’s done a lot for me, and he’s had a lot to tackle. I can handle the Kents.”

“Oh, Corin has done a lot for all of us here, I won’t disagree. He’s done us great favors, and I’m grateful for the things he’s crafted for me. Corin is a good friend to thepeople in this room. But I’m not talking about that — I’m talking about the kind of blindness that is burned into people like Corin from childhood. The distance necessary to say, ‘it isn’t happening to me or one of my loved ones right now, and it’s probably not going to, so it’s not important’. That’s the privilege that comes with noble birth.”

“But you—” I started to say that she was the same, but… she wasn’t. As she’d reminded me…and, as I’d reminded her, both intentionally and otherwise…she was raised as a retainer, not a noble. A gilded servant, no question, but a servant none-the-less.

And I’d demeaned even that, when I’d offered retainership to Patrick without even considering how significant it would be to either of them.

Was it any surprise Sera had a different perspective on my inaction?“…You could have asked me to help with something like Kent, or with…other things. I would have…”

Sera’s expression softened. “I’m sure I could have asked for help, or Mara could have, but that’s not the point, Corin. You didn’t see the problems on your own — but that doesn’t mean they haven’t always been there, deeply entrenched in Valia’s values. And…I’m a hypocrite, in some ways. I haven’t been perfect about this type of thing, either. When we met Jin, I didn’t trust him at all at first. And…it’s not easy to admit, but the fact that he didn’t look Valian was a big part of that. It would be the easiest thing in the world to feel vindicated that he eventually betrayed us. For a while, I did— like it confirmed my assumptions. But that’s not really right at all. He didn’t hurt anyone because he was from outside of Valia — we didn’t trust him, and we mistreated him, and he was placed in an unfathomably difficult position. That doesn’t forgive what he did, of course, but…it had nothing to do with simply being a foreigner. There are plenty  of  foreign  students  who  haven’t  done  anythingwrong, and I had the same instinctive distrust of them. In some ways, I still do. It’s not easy to turn off our biases.”

“It isn’t about turning them off,” Derek said, “you just have to be aware of your biases and try your hardest to do the right thing in spite of them. That’s all any one of us can do.”

“…It’d be easier if you could just tell me who to fight,” I complained.

“If it was that easy to handle injustice,” Sera jerked a thumb at Keras, “this guy would have punched it out already.”

Keras raised both hands. “Let’s be fair, I fully intend to punch out the physical manifestation of injustice at some point, I just have to find it first.”

“Okay, but until the time when Keras eliminates injustice in personal combat,” Sera managed a weak smile, “those of us who are in positions of privilege have a responsibility to do what we can to use that to help the people who are most vulnerable. And at times, that means doing things that make you uncomfortable. It doesn’t mean you absolutely have to stand in a crowd, Corin, and I’m sorry if I was too pushy on that particular point. It’s just…it’s very easy for people in our position to say ‘it’s too hard to help’ and let things go.”

I exhaled a breath, closing my eyes. “…I think, with two attunements, and a bit of research…I could make some very impressive signs.”

Sera smiled. “…Good. And I’d be glad to help.”

Patrick looked visibly relieved that the conversation was winding down. “…I’d like to help, too.”

“I can get started right away.” I nodded, then began to stand.

“A couple more things first,” Keras interrupted, waving me back to my chair. “Until we isolate the leaders of this movement and shut it down, I’d like you all to be cautious. Take extra security measures. I know Corin has been doingsome enchanting work for the house — can you do anything else for emergencies?”

I nodded to him. “I can think about it.”

Sera turned to me. “The message enchantments. We need to finish them. Soon.”

I pondered that. I didn’t like shifting my existing plans, and I was already going to need to make time for the signs, but…she was right. This was the right time to prioritize communication. “Okay. If we want to get more range out of them, though, I’m going to need help. The air mana battery works for small stuff, but…”

“Make the casings, I’ll put the air mana in them,” Derek cut in. “Don’t bother stopping at Sunstone like we discussed before. Go as big as you can. One for everyone here.”

I wasn’t sure if I could go bigger than Sunstone-level for the shells, but if I used mana from both attunements…yeah, the math worked. I could manage a Citrine-level shell, if only barely. “That will help, thank you.”

“Done.” Derek nodded firmly. “Now, shifting back a bit. If any of the Sons of Valia do contact you, let me know immediately. And if you have strong suspicions, bring those to me as well. I can put people on it. Beyond that, I think we should talk about making some general security precautions for emergencies. Let’s talk about code phrases.”

