CHAPTER XI – NEW MARKS

The next morning was Physical Training, the most generic and boring of classes. We didn’t really learn anything new there, but it was necessary for all attuned in training to have a certain baseline of physical conditioning if we were going to be in combat. By doing a little bit of physical training regularly, we were preparing for our eventual military service.

The simplicity of working out did have one benefit, above and beyond the obvious advantages of exercise. It gave me time to think about the future.

I know, I know. It might seem like I’m thinking about that constantly…and sure, I am. But in this context, I mean that I was specifically thinking about the military service that the training was intended for…and if I was planning to do it.

Farren had offered to get me out early. It had seemed like a serious offer — an exploitation of her connections to buy me out of service.

Would it be ethical to take that deal?I wasn’t sure. I didn’t like the idea of taking advantage of the system like that…but how many other people were doing it? If Farren had a way of getting people out of military service, it stood to reason there were other exceptions. I knew powerful people. If a Caelford native like Farren could do something like that, Meltlake almost certainly had the same level of sway or higher. Derek and Elora probably did, too.

They probably hadn’t done years of military service, had they? They’d gotten their attunements so early…had they gone straight into climbing as a substitute for service? That had been my original plan, since I was so intent on finding Tristan, but now…was that necessary? I knew where Tristan was.

Did I still want to be a climber?I still had to save Tristan somehow, but…was that the right way to do it?The threat to Tristan wasn’t the tower itself. Not anymore. He had two main problems — the brand that prevented him from leaving the spire without exploding… and the people who would murder him if he stepped out of Tenjin’s sanctum.

Some of those people were presumably the visages themselves.

…Stepping back into the tower wouldn’t necessarily give me any additional influence over that situation. My Arbiter attunement was clearly my biggest advantage in that regard, but it wouldn’t help if I didn’t approach the situation correctly. Simply approaching a visage and asking for Tristan to be spared wasn’t likely to get anywhere…especially since I didn’t know where each individual visage stood on the whole situation.

…And if one or more of them were already working with my brother.

He’d mentioned a sponsor. I still didn’t know who that sponsor was. Money was on Wydd, currently, or possibly someone like Wrynn Jaden. If Keras was right about Wrynn being as powerful as he was and more flexible, that theoretically put her in the same area of influence as a visage, too. In that case, at least, I was getting closer to being able to ask her directly.

…Assuming the box worked.

“Wake up, Cadence!” Someone yelled.

A supervisor. Whoops.

I shook my head to clear it and adjusted my running pace, moving back into formation.

Focus, I told myself. I need to look like I’m still working toward a standard graduation, at least for now.

There would be more time for planning later.

***I skipped Intermediate Mana Manipulation class, since I’d already been given permission to. I’d have to attend on occasion to take my tests, but I fully intended to take advantage of any free time I had available to do things that actually mattered to me.

In that case, it meant heading home for a quick shower, then getting straight into some sub-glyph research.

Learning a whole new language was painstakingly slow, especially since I was forced to learn it entirely from dusty tomes. There was no one accessible to teach me…and I wasn’t even sure verbal lessons would have helped.

I was making progress with learning the glyphs, but it wasn’t easy. I briefly considered trying to figure out if there were transcendence magic spells for quicker language acquisition…but while there might have been, I quickly decided that the idea was horrifyingly risky.

I’d barely scratched the surface of understanding transcendence magic — messing with my brain directly was a bad idea. I wasn’t going to discount the possibility of doing it eventually, but for the moment, I was just going to have to research the old-fashioned way.

Reading a lot of books.

Admittedly, studying my own attunement was a part of that process, too. That, at least, gave me a chance to practice some magic. I was getting more used to analyzing my sub-glyphs rapidly, finding patterns, and identifying the starting and end points of individual function sets.

I was confident I was getting close to being able to tinker with my functions more safely, but not on the scale I wanted.

I had big goals for tinkering with my attunement. Ones I’d discussed with Constantine and hinted to Sera about, but that I hadn’t told anyone else. Not yet.

For my next trick to work, I would need the element of surprise.

***After finishing up a couple hours of research, I got ready for my next class: Foreign Attunements and You.

I wasn’t sure I was actually going to learn anything useful there, but I wanted to improve my grasp on everything that was available through attunements in general. Improving my general knowledge of attunement functions – especially those supposed “unique” functions, even if they weren’t actually unique — would improve my flexibility when I finally reached the point of understanding sub-glyphs to my satisfaction.

So, I went to class.

…And immediately found myself distracted by someone other than the teacher.

That’s not to say that there was anything unremarkable about Professor Marks. His pitch-black skin might have marked him as being from Caelford, but his unusual hair style — his hair bound by three large metal rings — and huge spike-shaped earrings demonstrated a distinct Sytennian style.

Sytennia was a smaller nation outside of the Four Powers. They didn’t control any of the spires, and thus, they tended to get left out in our history lessons in the early years of school. Geographically, they weren’t far from Valia, and I’d seen people from Sytennia before, but not recently.

It was more interesting to me that a Sytennian would be teaching a class on foreign attunements, given that people from Sytennia generally didn’t get attunements at all. Instead, my understanding was that Sytennians sent expeditions into the Unclaimed Lands more frequently than the other nations, with the intent of acquiring crystal marks from the various crystal shrines and elemental temples.

I would have been very enthusiastic to hear a Sytennian perspective on attunements in general, but I was more than a little distracted.

That strange, iron-haired student I’d seen earlier was in this class, too — and he was very definitely watching me.

When most people see you staring at them, they tend to either look away or do something to acknowledge the behavior, like waving amiably. Iron-hair didn’t do either — he just…kind of kept looking at me. His expression was intensely neutral, as if he was concentrating on something. Maybe he was. If he had some kind of active magical effect, maybe he was analyzing my abilities and equipment.

Who is he? And what did I do to warrant this kind of attention?The unusual hair color was a pretty big concern, of course. Hair dye was always possible, but after Mizuchi, I didn’t want to make any assumptions about artificial coloring.

Could he be another serpent?I’d already run into Satsuki during the Survival Match, so it was plausible there were others in the area, either as students or otherwise. Were there more serpents infiltrating the student base? Or…just intentionally being allowed to attend the academy? I wasn’t sure which would be more worrisome.

I shook my head, dismissing that thought as best I could. I needed more information and I wasn’t going to get it simply by theorizing. I’d have to start actively doing some research on him…or, you know, just ask him, I guess. That was technically an option.

I was half-focused on him throughout the class, waiting for the possibility that he might stand up and start obliterating people at any time (unlikely, but I’d seen stranger things). As such, I didn’t have the focus to take in all of the introductory lesson in detail…but I didn’t really need most of it, anyway.

For the most part, Professor Marks just set a foundation, explaining some basic theory about other attunements that I was already familiar with.

Each tower had exactly eight attunements available in the “standard” set for Judgments, but it was also possible toend up with a foreign attunement. This meant that there were presumed to be forty-eight total attunements in the standard sets, assuming the Spider Spire followed the same rules as the other five towers.

I considered asking about the Seventh Spire, but I didn’t want to get into that right away, and he didn’t mention it. Not immediately.

Beyond that, Professor Marks went into some other foundational aspects about attunements for other nations. For example, certain types of mana types tended to be more common in specific towers than others, and certain towers tended to lean toward specific styles of special features. Edria’s spire had a lot of shroud-focused attunements, which granted access to shrouds at Quartz-level, rather than Carnelian, similar to our own local Guardian attunement.

The professor also mentioned some basics about the distinctions between the spires themselves. Rooms tended to rotate more slowly in the Tortoise Spire, for example, and floors took longer on average to clear. The Tiger Spire favored scenario floors. The Hydra Spire favored combat challenges. Spire design wasn’t a main focus of the course, but we’d get bits and pieces about it to help prepare us for secondary Judgments, if we decided to take any.

I tried to absorb what I could, but that iron-haired student kept drawing my gaze. Once again, I felt like there was something about him that was almost familiar, but I couldn’t quite place it. Something about his eyes, maybe? Or…his stance?I frowned, trying to place it, but without results.

He gave me one last look as the class ended, then left, almost as if he was inviting me to follow.

I didn’t.

I’d had enough strange encounters and ambushes for the last year.

I went straight home.

