CHAPTER XV – PROMISES OF FUTURE PROBLEMS

Dealing with people was hard, especially when I had several different meetings to deal with back-to-back. It’s possible I’d made a critical mistake with my life choices by continuously giving myself more social obligations, but bowing out of them was more work, so…that led me to my next confrontation of the day.

Inhale, exhale.

I can do this.

I stepped into the arena across from my opponent. It wasn’t the first time I’d fought against a Shaper, not by any stretch of the imagination. It wasn’t even the first time I’d fought him, although it had been a solid year.

And I was strong enough now to know how little he’d been trying.

“Combatants, ready positions.” Patrick sat outside the arena, serving as announcer for the match. “Bow to your opponent.”

We bowed. “Begin!”

And in the blur that followed, I saw just how quickly a Citrine-level Shaper could move.

Lord Jonathan Teft was a blur as he shot forward like a cannonball, flashing as he reached the middle of the arena and formed two duplicates of himself. All three of them made the same motion, raising dueling canes to produce a blade and prepare to swing.

I could follow Teft’s movements, albeit barely. Three of them? Hahaha, no, not a chance.

Not at my baseline speed, anyway.

Haste. Accelerated Computation.

My right hand moved to my left hip.

Incoming attack, downward arc, impact in 0.284 seconds.

I drew straight into a strike. Not a parry — a direct attack designed to swing under his. Simultaneously, I shifted a fraction to the side, leaning my head to avoid the impact trajectory of his cane.

Teft startled at the sudden movement, adjusting his own assault to throw himself to the side of the swing. I was honestly a little impressed — he didn’t have any obvious perception spells active, although admittedly, I couldn’t be certain if he’d already applied them earlier. Either he’d prepared for rapid adjustments or he simply had absurd reflexes. Both were dangerous.

But not as dangerous as the two copies of him that that were attacking me simultaneously from my back and left side.

A calculation of impact times told me that I couldn’t block both of them quickly enough, nor could I dodge to the side without exposing myself to the real Teft’s counterstrike.

I could, however, dodge up. Jump.

I shot into the air, avoiding both incoming strikes and raising my sword for a downward swing—Just before I smashed into a phantasmal ceiling.

The impact was cushioned by both my shroud and my redundant shield sigils, but I still felt it — my ring launched me upward with much greater force than a normal jump.

My ever-helpful enhanced analytical abilities told me, impact to head, check for concussion at soonest convenience.

I didn’t have time to worry about that in the moment. The impact had interrupted my attempt at an attack, and I barely managed to blast myself to the side as I descended to avoid a hail of blasts from three dueling canes.

Conjured dueling canes appear functional. Further research required to determine full capabilities of simulacra- carried magical items.

I’d been almost certain that simulacra didn’t get any benefits from the items that their creator was carrying, so this demonstration was unusual, but that was a problem for future Corin.

I hit the ground and swept my blade straight through two more dueling cane blasts, then shot forward with another jump, closing the distance to one of the copies of Teft.

I swung. He raised his cane to parry.

And, just as I’d hoped, Mr. Stabbington sliced straight through his dueling cane without resistance.

The copy’s eyes widened fractionally as his parry failed, but he still managed to shift backward before the blade cut into him. That was good, because if he hadn’t, I’d have probably torn him like paper.

I didn’t have a chance to celebrate. A moment later, phantasmal chains bound my arm to the ground, still in the downward position I’d used for the swing.

Available wrist and arm movement insufficient for severing chain.

That limited my most obvious counter, which was simply rending the chains apart with the same anti-magic void effect that had proven so effective against the simulacra. Teft had clearly noticed the sword’s power and had adeptly countered my strategy.

My first one, anyway.

One, two…good enough.

I slammed my other fist into the chain, charged with transference mana. Transference wasn’t the direct opposite of the mana type used for Shaper constructs — Shapers used a composite mana type — but that composite contained enhancement mana, which transference could counter.

…But there was the problem of power.

My hand flashed and sent a burst of energy straight into the construct…and managed to chip it just a little before a barrage of conjured blades slammed into my back.

My shield shattered. My stomach lurched.

…Then I was outside of the arena, standing in the starting position next to my anchor.

Distantly, I heard Patrick’s announcement. “Lord Teft: 1.

Corin Cadence: 0.”

Position altered by one hundred and fifteen meters through teleportation effect upon shield sigil failure, as expected. Both shield sigils drained.

I sighed, sheathed my sword, then shook my hands in the air to reduce their tremors.

Release Haste. Release Accelerated Computation.

I stretched a mana thread downward to my primary shield sigil, recharging it. “Sigil recharged,” I declared. I didn’t want to bother recharging both — the redundant sigils hadn’t done much of anything during the match, and I needed to conserve my mana.

I had my batteries stored in the Jaden Box, but I’d need those later, too. We were just getting started.

Teft nodded. “Positions, then.”

Inhale, exhale. One more time.

“Combatants, ready. Bow…and begin.”

***Hours later, I sat down in the stands outside the arena with both Patrick and Lord Teft. Teft and I were both gulping down water. Patrick was taking notes.

After properly hydrating, Teft and I turned to each other to discuss the matches.

I’d lost all of them, of course. That was to be expected.

The margin was the disappointing part. I’d tried a variety of different strategies, but I’d never managed to scratch the real Teft. I’d managed to hit his simulacra a few times, and even dispelled one of them once, but that was hardly an accomplishment.

“A good start,” Teft said, perhaps noting my dour demeanor.  “You  demonstrated  excellent  knowledge  ofstandard Shaper tactics, as well as appropriate countermeasures. I confess that I had not anticipated your use of a void weapon.”

I nodded. “I figured you’d have planned around Selys- Lyann, due to your prior knowledge of it. Unfortunately, as soon as you saw what it could do, I’d lost much of that advantage.”

“I would disagree. That weapon gave me a true risk to account for throughout each of the matches — and you demonstrated sufficient skill at it to keep me at a distance. That limited my engagement at close range, due to the possibility that one of your transference bursts would allow you to briefly overcome my speed advantage. This meant that you only had to contend with my simulacra at close range, while I was forced to use ranged tactics.”

“…Sure. That isn’t necessarily ideal, though. You’re better at long range than I am.”

“Of course. I’m better at any range than you are.”

…I couldn’t argue with that. It wasn’t bravado, it was simply a statement of fact.

Focusing on the conversation again, I considered my response. “Limiting your options might be good, but I’d rather limit them to force you into melee combat, rather than away from it.”

“Unlikely, unless you have some form of area denial magic that I’m unaware of.”

I considered that Taer’vys Ironthorn had somehow managed to envelop an entire arena with void during one of his battles against Keras, but I’d rarely heard of other examples. Void magic was notoriously difficult to use for the creation of magical items — that was part of what made my void mana sword so remarkable. I decided it was probably worth investigating if I could find a way to do it, but I didn’t anticipate any success.

I could use my void sword to charge a battery, then use the battery to try to create another item…but there are avariety of problems. Void enchantment formulae are extremely difficult to find. Materials that can hold void mana are also rare and expensive. And, even if I could find both the enchantments and the materials, I don’t think there’s enough mana here to do much if I distributed it across a wide area instead of a sword blade. I could theoretically try to double up and make multiple batteries, but this is probably a Sunstone to Citrine-level item already, and I can’t get too much beyond that.

Even if I make something like a Citrine-level void generator, I doubt it could cover a whole dueling area with enough saturation to incapacitate an opponent…And that would restrict me, too. I’m not immune to my own items, and I have limited mana to work with.

Hm.

“Lost in thought?” Teft asked.

“Oh, sorry. Debating if I could create an item for making an area of void. The core concept seems possible, but I don’t think I could get a broad enough area with enough saturation.”

Teft stared at me briefly, then shook his head. “…At times, I forget how advanced your enchanting capabilities are for your age. Yes, I suppose you probably could do that, but I would advise against it. You’d likely end up being forced into the zone yourself, and you’d be much less effective there than your stronger opponent.”

I frowned, considering further. “What about something transference-based, rather than void-based? Shaper constructs and simulacra all contain density, right?”

“In various quantities, yes. Most constructs only utilize a minimal amount of density, unless you’re dealing with a density specialist. And since density is a compound of enhancement and stone, you’re correct that transference is typically a useful countermeasure — but it’s highly dependent on the specific levels of each individual mana type present in the construct. If you wanted to makesomething with a broad area transference effect — like say, an item that repels everything in a wide area — that would have to be extremely powerful to actually destabilize constructs. And you would not be immune.”

I nodded. “What about something with a beneficial transference effect? Like, if I cast a wide-area Haste spell, or put down an item that generates a Haste field? Would that be damaging to constructs and simulacra?”

“It would likely gradually erode them, but not quickly enough to destroy them within the scope of a standard battle. That’s especially true if you’re fighting an opponent of a higher attunement-level.”

Hm. If that won’t work, maybe they have another weakness based on a different mana type they utilize…“Can you run through the full list of mana types used in simulacra for me? You went over the kinds of mana used to maintain them in the first day of class, but not the full list of mana types used to build them in the first place.”

Teft nodded. “That’s because it’s a long list including multiple composite mana types. I try to avoid overwhelming my students too much on the first day. Present company exempted, of course.”

I chuckled. “Thanks. Makes sense. What’s the list?” “Density,  enhancement,  spirit,  memory,  life,  mental,perception, and grey. As I’m certain you can guess, most of those are provided directly by hidden attunement functions, rather than types that Shapers are actually given access to using directly. A Shaper can’t actually create simulacra until you reach Sunstone-level, since that’s when it begins to generate pools of those mana types in the attunement to store for the simulacrum function.”

Huh. That’s fascinating. And those mana types…they’re very similar to the same ones the Transcendence Gateway Crystal listed for ones it uses. Not identical, but very similar. Probably not a coincidence.

Wait. If it’s a specialized attunement-function, and they can’t use simulacra without it…“Are there anti-Shaper runes, similar to anti-teleportation and anti-divination ones? Like, something that specifically prevents people from being able to use the simulacrum- creation function?”

Teft frowned. “I don’t think I’ve seen anything like that, but…I suppose such a thing might be hypothetically possible. There could be severe consequences to such an invention, however. Shapers are a backbone of our military might. If you publicly deployed such a device, and word spread that it had been used…”

I groaned. “That’s…ugh. I hate having to account for things like that. For the record, I don’t plan for our duel to be public, but…yeah, I’ll consider the ramifications before I get too deep into trying to design an anti-Shaper device.”

Even if such a thing was possible, I’d probably need a Shaper to help me build it — or at least a battery for the composite mana type that Shapers used.

…Which was possible, given that Sera’s crystal mark was for density mana. She’d probably be willing to help me make a battery, once her mana capacity reached the amount necessary to fill one.

That didn’t mean it was the best possible plan, though, especially given the concern that Teft had mentioned.

“Your frustration is reasonable. I, too, have often been irritated by the limitations necessary on my strategies due to outside factors.”

I blinked. I had trouble picturing that. “…Really?”

“Of course. You must understand that I was not always a Citrine-level Shaper. As I mentioned, I began as an Enchanter, and had to adapt, much as you did. Even when I first gained my secondary attunement, there was a long period where it was underpowered compared to my contemporaries. And, even once I reached Citrine-level, you must understand that I’ve had to contend with equal orstronger opponents. In such cases, standard Shaper strategies are not always sufficient. Everyone knows them.”

I hadn’t put too much thought into that side of things, but he was right.

There were four basic styles of Shaper strategies: body enhancement, construct creation, simulacra summoning, and spell shaping. Different Shapers chose different specialties, but ultimately, those were the primary disciplines that all Shapers drew from. The level of flexibility provided through those four styles made Shapers extremely formidable and adaptable…but because of that, counters to each were constantly being formulated and documented. I’d studied many of them even as a child, when it had been assumed I’d be a Shaper myself.

There were technically other options for Shapers, like trying to utilize one of the other base mana types by itself, but they were generally considered inferior to the standard approaches.

So, if you were trying to work your way up as a duelist, you were underpowered for your age, and everyone already knew your techniques, what kind of a position did that put you in?Not a great one, really.

I felt an unexpected bit of comradery for Teft with that realization. “…What sorts of strategies did you come up with, that you weren’t willing to use? Would any of them be applicable in my situation?”

Teft smiled softly. “An excellent question. I have a few that might, in fact, be useful to you.”

***After getting home, I took a quick shower. Then, I went to pay Sera a visit.

Sera opened her door, looking a little surprised. “Corin? Visiting me, without prompting? Should I be checking for illusions and simulacra?”

I rolled my eyes. “It’s actually me. But things do get more unusual, so I can understand some skepticism. I’m following up on your offer to help me. It’s a little invasive, but I do have a request for you.”

“Invasive?” Sera raised an eyebrow. “You’re not going to ask me about my love life, are you? I’m not sure you could handle hearing about my relationship matrix, but if you think you’re ready for it, I’m willing to share.”

I sighed. “That’s literally the furthest thing from my mind, now and forever. No, Sera. I want you to let me look at your attunement.”

“Normally, I’d ask someone to buy me a few drinks before — nope, too weird making that joke with my brother, I’ll stop there. Why? You’ve seen it — ah, I understand. You mean you want to look at the sub-glyph functions, because you’ve been trying to figure out how to make items for contracts.”

I blinked. Weird teasing aside, I was impressed. She was absolutely right. “…Yeah. I’ve looked at books on them, but I haven’t found everything I need, and there’s no substitute for time spent studying a contract attunement directly.”

“Sure. You’ve mentioned wanting to look at my attunement before. You wanted to compare my attunement to a normal Summoner at some point. Did you have someone in mind for that?”

I shook my head. “No, not yet. But I’ve decided not to wait on that part. I can look at your attunement now and compare later. I think I’ll be able to get enough out of your own attunement to at least start making some notes. And beyond that…you have the only ascended attunement I know of.”

“Ah, yes. One of the places I’m clearly superior.” She preened. “And you want to crack that open and figure out how it works. Are you planning to use that information to ascend your own attunement?”

“Maybe. I don’t actually know if that’s possible. I haven’t actually found any sub-glyphs for ascended versions of my attunements inside them yet, although they might be hidden in one of the sections I can’t see until I hit Citrine- level. If they already exist, getting familiar with yours would help me understand what it would take to activate them, as well as what the effects of doing so might be.”

I paused for a breath, then continued. “If there’s nothing already in my attunement for ascending, that might mean that only some attunements have that functionality built in, or that the ascended features are grafted on at some other point in the process. For example, it’s possible that your ascended attunement functions didn’t exist until after you drank the primer, at which point Seiryu used your contract as a connection to take some of that mana and apply it toward altering your attunement.”

“Seiryu wouldn’t have even necessarily needed to use the primer’s mana for that — she could have used her own mana, given how our contract connects us. But yes, your point stands. I agree that Seiryu intervened in some way, but I’d been picturing it more like flipping a simple switch, similar to how you made yourself temporarily Sunstone when fighting the copy of Keras.”

“…Ah, I wouldn’t say that was quite as simple as flipping a switch, but yes, similar.” I nodded. “Yes, that’s probably what happened, but given how quickly I can make attunement changes with Accelerated Computation active… it’s possible that Seiryu can do it even faster, and she wrote an entire new section in your attunement to ascend it. Or rather than wrote it, copied it from somewhere else, or...”

“I get the idea. So, you want to take a look at how my attunement works, and possibly take away the main thing that makes me stand apart from the rest of our group by giving it to yourself.”

I nodded vehemently. “Oh, yeah. And everyone else on our team. Can’t let you even have a tiny bit of uniqueness.”

Sera scoffed. “Fine. I suppose if I’m going to be condemned to mediocrity, I should at least be the agent that enables my own destruction. Very well, Corin. Do your worst.”

I laughed. “Sit down. This won’t hurt a bit.”

Dropping back into our sibling banter was a comfort, and I found myself in a good mood as I put a hand on Sera’s attunement and closed my eyes.

Analyze Attunement Composition. Accelerated Computation.

I dug into her attunement’s sub-glyphs, much as I had with my own. Studying it wasn’t quick. I still didn’t have full comprehension of the sub-glyph language, but I read what I could in a single brief session.

Finding the basics of contract functions was simple enough — they were located in the same approximate “location” as my Enchanter-specific functions, if “location” is something that makes sense in terms of written language inside a magical construct. Anyway, I studied that a bit, looking at what I could find for how contracts were established and stabilized, as well as some other functions that I hadn’t been able to find much on in the books I’d been loaned.

…But it still felt like something was fundamentally missing. I’d have to dig deeper when I had more time.

As for general ascended functions, or anything related to her Invoker abilities…I couldn’t find them. Or, rather, I found the likely section where they were located, but it was locked out much like my higher-level Arbiter functions were and I couldn’t verify what was inside.

If I wanted to determine more about the mechanisms of how those advanced functions worked, I’d have to hit Citrine…and that meant digging myself deeper into the dangers of having my Arbiter attunement. The risks that Warren Constantine had warned me about.

I’d say that I had an important choice ahead of me in that regard, but the truth was that I’d already made that choice a long time before.

I released my spell, pulled my hand off Sera’s back, and exhaled a deep breath. “Thanks.”

“So, are you ready to ruin things for me now, or should I expect it to take longer?”

“Longer. Couldn’t tap into the ascended stuff yet. Need more time to study the contract stuff, too.”

Sera tried not to look relieved. “…Understood. I’m okay with letting you study further, but let me bring a book or something next time.”

I winced. “Oh. Sorry. That must have been boring.”

“It was, but it didn’t take you too long, just fifteen or twenty minutes. How long did it feel?”

“…Like an hour or two. Interesting. I knew Accelerated Computation increased my processing speed, but I wasn’t expecting that level of compression.”

“Might be worth exploring that further…but not now. You need to get some rest at some point. You can’t just train and study all the time.”

“Sure.” I told her. “Thanks, Sera. I’ll do that.”

***My idea of “rest” wasn’t the same as most of my friends. I was, in spite of our obvious differences, more like Keras in that regard—I couldn’t be idle when I sensed an imminent threat. And, at the moment, I sensed several.

My looming duel was the most obvious one, but I had other concerns now that we were back in Valia. We were in striking distance of the Serpent Spire again, and if Mizuchi recovered from being banished — if she hadn’t already — I had no idea if she was going to emerge with a vendetta.

In theory, a spire guardian needed someone to summon them out of a spire to leave…but someone must have donethat in order for Mizuchi to assault the Winter Ball. Whoever had orchestrated that could do it again.

I might need to figure that out at some point.

Katashi would have the power, of course, and he’d summoned Mizuchi when he’d been making the show of force earlier in the year…but why would he send her to the ball? She had made a point about the government growing corrupt…if that was the purpose of her assault, wouldn’t Katashi have just shown up himself if that was his goal?There’s too much I don’t understand about that. Maybe Tristan knows more, but he’s gone silent.

Aside from the Mizuchi problem, I was still concerned about Saffron, too. While Keras was present, that was less of a concern, but he couldn’t be everywhere at once…and he was leaving soon.

So, with all that in mind, conventional “rest” wasn’t really an option in my mind. And tinkering with Sera’s attunement had renewed my resolve for one particular goal.

I’d waited long enough, pretending to debate a choice I’d known I’d make. I had power just waiting for me to grasp it— if I was willing to make changes to my attunement.

I’d done it just once before, during the Transcendence Gateway Crystal’s test against the conjured Keras. At that point, it had been a desperate move that had helped me keep up just a little bit against that simulated Keras…but obviously, he’d been weaker than the real thing, and it had only bought me enough time to win the scenario through dialogue.

In a real fight, pushing myself to Sunstone would be a marginal power boost, but nothing that would be meaningful against someone like Mizuchi. Aside from more mana and a stronger shroud, the main benefit was improved shroud manipulation. That would help me do more with my mana threads, and I had some ideas on how to optimize that, but not in a way that would make me more effective in that particular type of fight.

No, against Mizuchi and similar opponents, our most critical problem was simple—Speed.

I was already pushing myself to the limits of my processing ability with Haste spells. I’d graduated from my Quartz and Carnelian-level Haste spells to playing with a full Sunstone-level Haste spell…and even that wasn’t close to enough. My senses couldn’t keep up with the extra speed, and even if they could, Keras was still faster than I was with Haste on — and that was without using any techniques of his own.

Sunstone didn’t help with that…but maybe, just maybe, Citrine-level would.

The problem, of course, was that pushing myself all the way to Citrine-level — even temporarily — was a ludicrous risk. My body wasn’t going to be able to handle it for long, if at all.

And so, rather than taking that kind of foolish risk, I turned toward a secret discussion I’d held with Warren Constantine. One that I’d hinted at to others previously, but that I’d thus far kept mostly to myself.

Project Peridot.

I pulled open Constantine’s notes on the project, reviewing them again before I began to work.

There is a part of me that hesitates to place this in writing, for even now, Farren’s lackeys scour my works for what little they might need to bring full accusations of heresy to the attentions of their Whisper contacts. I take this risk not for myself, but with the knowledge of my own impending failure. I have seen enough of the history of fragments like myself to know that we are rarely as long lived as our ambitions. There will come a time when my work must be carried on by another.

And so, it is my desperate hope that this work can be carried on, perhaps by one who has managed to evade theconstant scrutiny that I must endure. I wish I could simply publish these findings and benefit our society as a whole, but I fear that road would lead to another Feria or Feldmyr. Another nation ground to dust in a single night.

And so, it is only in these notes that I reveal the deepest of my treasons—I have broken the attunement scale.

It is a statement that is simultaneously profound and utterly simple.

We are taught since childhood that there is a clear path of advancement one must follow — Quartz to Carnelian, Carnelian to Sunstone, and so on.

But this is just as arbitrary as the levels themselves. Manufactured to the particular neurosis of an obsessive goddess who long ago chose a particular form of escalating scale based on shattered memories rather than rational rules.

There is no need for every level on the attunement scale to be precisely six times the mana requirements of the previous levels. There is no reason why every specific ability needs to be unlocked at exactly the point that was chosen. To some degree, the existing system acknowledges this — a Guardian or Executioner gains their shroud at Quartz-level rather than Carnelian, and through countless iterations, the progression	of		attunements	themselves	have	changed. Some	entire	features	were		implemented	in		specific attunement generations and later removed. These changes are acknowledged by many scholars, as well as the visages themselves, but the scale itself has remained sacred. Static. Until me. Or, perhaps, some previous fool who was long ago erased from history for making the same presumptuousattempts to tinker with the works of a divinity.

And so, it is here that I reveal my hubris and delight once again in the simplicity of executing it—I am no longer on the attunement scale. No, I did not presume to make myself a “Sapphire”. Such a thing wouldbe foolhardy. Not only am I uncertain as to whether or not my human form could handle the additional mana capacity required for a hypothetical Sapphire level, such a thing would immediately reveal my work to the world. The blue aura would be an immediate signal.

Instead, I have chosen to delay my inevitable discovery and destruction through a subtler path:Peridot.

I chose the name because it was a convenient one for a yellow-green color, which is an accurate summation of my chosen placement — a level in between Citrine and Emerald. Due to the absolutely absurd gap in power between Citrine and Emerald, there is a tremendous amount of untapped potential in this power range. It would be possible for many more attunement functions to be implemented safely between Citrine and Emerald — the body would generally have years to acclimate to them as their mana pool grows between these stages. In truth, I could likely create several intervening levels between Citrine and Emerald without causing any significant risks to the body, each with additional attunement features — but I have chosen to work on a simpler scale for now.

Peridot is my attempt to create a stage with entirely new attunement functions, which I will detail in separate documents. Constructing a new attunement function from nothing is an ambitious project that will stretch even my own formidable knowledge of sub-glyphs. It would be easier, perhaps, to simply borrow from the attunement functions of other attunements — for example, to build Summoner functions into my Enchanter attunement — but I admit that this is of lesser interest to me.

Peridot remains an ongoing project, but for the time being, I have begun work on testing the fundamentals. As a proof of concept, I began with a simpler new level — I had no  desire  to  destroy  myself  outright  by  testing  newfunctions without even trying established ones. Not on most days, at least.

I created a simpler new level, which I call Spessartine. This is an intervening level between Sunstone and Citrine, with some Citrine-level functions enabled without actually reaching Citrine-level.

It works flawlessly…at least for someone like myself that has already reached Citrine-level mana tolerance. For someone with a body that is not yet acclimated to Citrine- level abilities, I cannot say with any certainty that turning on Citrine-level functions will be tolerated. I have yet to take the risk, but my calculations show that there is a significant enough mana range in between Sunstone and Citrine to allow for certain specific functions. See the attached papers on mana tolerances for more on this subject.

Warren Constantine had cracked something I’d been wondering about since my visit to Farren Labs — he’d figured out how to modify his attunement in novel ways. He’d made entirely new attunement levels. This was, to me, both exciting and terrifying in equal measure.

I was still horrified about the risks of trying to tinker with anything that could potentially destroy my mind. Modifying my Enchanter attunement seemed like a very likely way to do that — and, in spite of Constantine’s obvious genius, he clearly hadn’t come out of the whole process of attunement tinkering unscathed. His mental decline might have had more to do with deliberately destroying his own attunements and tapping into older magic, but…I had a sense from the mania in his papers, as well as the strange way he referred to himself as a “fragment”, that there was already something strange going on with him prior to that point.

I was curious about that, but I didn’t have the means to press him for more information at the moment. Perhaps I’dfind more in his papers, but I wasn’t sure if he’d delve into anything quite that personal.

In spite of my fears, I knew that attunement modification was a unique opportunity. True, there were a few people with Biomancer and Enchanter combinations out there as well, and those could do similar work on their own attunements without risk, but I doubted they had access to Constantine’s notes the way I did. It wasn’t implausible that others had figured out the same things in parallel, or even earlier…but that didn’t really matter.

This was something I could do that maybe a handful of other people on the continent even knew about. I mean, aside from the visages, and maybe some whispers, and… okay, more than a handful. But a few handfuls?It was a rare advantage. And one I intended to exploit to the fullest possible extent…without destroying myself.

I dug through Constantine’s notes for the specific thing I was looking for — notes on mana tolerances for specific attunement functions.

To summarize without getting into extraneous detail, turning on any given attunement function put a strain on the body. A person’s ability to tolerate active attunement functions was related to the amount of mana their body could hold. There were also other factors in play that I didn’t perfectly understand, like star vein capacities and Dianis Point tolerances, but the summary was simple enough — based on someone’s safe mana capacity, it was possible to roughly calculate which functions their body could safely handle. Some functions were safer than others, and some attunements generated mana types that better prepared the body to handle both more mana and additional functions.

Constantine’s notes weren’t exhaustive. He hadn’t studied every possible attunement function, nor the safe mana thresholds for every single attunement. He worked insecrecy, and thus, the data from his study was limited to what he could study without getting caught.

But he had the exact same attunement set that I did, at least when he’d been writing these notes. And thus, he had better data on Enchanter and Arbiter safe mana thresholds and functions than any other attunement.

I found what I wanted easily enough — a single higher- level function that could potentially change the way I fought forever.

…And, with great hesitancy, I did something I almost never was willing to do.

I waited.

I didn’t do the crazy possible self-destruction thing immediately.

Instead, I told Sera what I was about to do, and with her knowledge and approval of my plan, I went to get the one person who might be able to save me if something did go terribly wrong.

***“Well, crumpet. This is certainly a pleasant surprise.” Sheridan Theas gestured for me to sit down in the table across from them. I found them at a coffee shop, sitting and drinking tea while eating a…was that a crumpet?It definitely was. That certainly gave Sheridan’s chosen pet name a little bit more of a sinister twinge than it might have otherwise.

Strangely, I didn’t mind. Sheridan’s particular brand of hilariously dangerous barely phased me. Maybe living with Derek and Keras for months had simply inured me to deadly weirdness…or maybe there was something underlying that playful attitude that I liked more than I was willing to admit.

…That was possibly concerning in itself, but a problem for future Corin.

I slid into the chair with a smile forming on my face. “Glad I managed to find you. How are you?” At a yap from atiny dog I’d just noticed at my feet, I hastily added, “And Mister Eviscerator?”

“Oh, I’m doing about as well as one could expect, given the current circumstances. And thank you for inquiring about Mister Eviscerator, but I can’t answer for him. You’ll have to learn to speak his language.” They pulled off a piece of crumpet and tossed it to the dog. I was less fond of the potential symbolism in that, but tried not to read too much into it.

I briefly wondered if Sheridan actually expected me to learn to speak a dog language, then briefly considered if transcendence magic would make it possible, or if I’d need something		like	communication	mana.	Then,	I		realized	I appeared	to	be	staring	blankly	at	my	own		feet	while pondering, so I sat up. “I’m pleased to hear you’re doing well. Is this a good time to talk about forbidden knowledge?” Sheridan laughed, clapping their hands. “Marvelous. You managed to dispense with the crust and get to the meat even more efficiently than I’d hoped. To answer your query, it obviously isn’t in the immediate sense,” they gestured at our civilian-containing surroundings, “but if you’ll indulge a brief delay, I’d be quite pleased to take a walk somewheremore…private.”

“Excellent. In the meantime…should I order something?”

Sheridan took another bite of a crumpet. “I’d think that would depend on if you like anything you see.”

“I’ll…take a closer look.”

I let my gaze linger a couple more moments on Sheridan— enough to earn another flash of a smile — and then finally lifted a menu.

I didn’t order anything that day, but in the future…maybe I’d come back for more.

***After Sheridan finished their coffee and snack, we took our promised walk to a nearby park. Sheridan lifted an umbrella and expanded it, runes flashing on the inside themoment it opened. Mister Eviscerator let out a bark at the momentary flash of light, the sound echoing eerily for a moment before fading into normalcy.

A consequence of the umbrella’s sound-containment functions. Interesting. I should look into more sound modification—ah, who am I kidding, my list is long enough right now. Need to focus a bit.

Sheridan offered an arm for me to slip my arm into. For a brief moment, I actually considered it, feeling a strange mixture of my usual revulsion and something that might have been…interest, maybe?I filed that away with a blink, then shook my head.

Sheridan retracted their arm without a further word.

As we found an open stretch of the park without anyone in obvious eyeshot or earshot, Sheridan silently turned to me and turned their chin in an obvious implication of inquiry.

“So,” I began, “I’ve been thinking about fundamentally altering some attunements.”

“Of course you have, darling.” Sheridan nodded as if this probable heresy was the most obvious thing in the world. “And I take it you’re concerned about mana scarring?”

That was fast.

“And any other potential side effects. I’ve been doing some reading on internal mana structures — things like star veins and Dianis Points. It’s possible they could rupture if too much mana is forced through them.”

“Theoretically, yes. In practice, you’d be unlikely to cause that unless you did something absurd, like take yourself straight to Emerald. Which you would never consider.”

Sheridan gave me a pointed look. I held a hand to my heart in mock-offense.

“Of course not! My plans are far more complex and the dangers significantly more nuanced.”

Something flashed in Sheridan’s eyes. “Tell me.”

“I probably will.” I raised a finger. “But before I continue, I should probably ask what you would do if I, say, happened to theoretically be doing something against the will of Wydd.”

“Well, in that hypothetical circumstance, I would obviously have to sacrifice you on a very elaborate and well- maintained altar. It’s quite nice, I don’t get to show people often. Would you like to see it?”

Since it seemed like the sane response, I said, “Maybe later.”

“A practical answer. Polite, yet noncommittal. A little boring,” Sheridan pouted, “but I’ll forgive it in light of the primary conversation being far more fascinating than this tangent. Now, since you obviously require a more detailed response, I will also note that I have no means to accurately evaluate Wydd’s approval or disapproval of your plans. I am not, as you will recall, actually a Whisper of Wydd — merely a follower. And you, dear Arbiter, are a messenger of the visages.”

“Meaning,” I mused, “I would actually be more equipped to accuse you of heresy.”

“I would look rather good on that altar, I think,” Sheridan considered, “do you have your own candles, or should I plan to supply them?”

“I have some,” I responded automatically, given that I absolutely did have some in the Jaden Box, without processing the implications of the question — or the image— until after I replied. “But, uh, that won’t be immediately necessary. Will it?”

“I don’t know, Corin. Have I been doing any heresy? You really should be watching me more closely.”

“I’ll take that into consideration. Now, banter aside,” I noted Sheridan’s pout in response to that remark, “are you willing to assist me? You’re one of the few people who might be able to intervene if something goes catastrophically wrong.”

“While I do appreciate your estimation of my abilities, would it not be prudent to instead seek out someone who has some direct ability to, say, reverse the process of any modifications you choose to make? Or at least pause any functions you enable?”

Sheridan’s question implied a greater degree of understanding of what I was doing than I was certain they’d have, but I found myself both unsurprised and pleased by that. “I’d need either someone with my own combination of attunements for that or someone who has both an Enchanter and Biomancer attunement. I’m not aware of anyone in Valia with those capabilities. Farren Labs has most of them.”

“Most,” Sheridan agreed, “but not all. There have been efforts to set up competitors in the past. And, beyond that… there may be ways to halt damage without actually interacting with attunements in the way you’re thinking.”

I pondered that. “…Oh, like simply disabling the attunement outright? Hm. They’re protected against that sort of thing…but I suppose if my restricted attunement can modify an attunement, others might have the access necessary to use something like void or shadow sorcery to dampen or disable one. Would…the Necromancer attunement happen to be able to disable attunements, Sheridan?”

“Hm. I’m not sure, Corin. Would doing something like that be heresy?”

I’d known this would be a dangerous conversation, but it was leading in a direction I hadn’t considered. I wasn’t exactly skilled at political maneuvering, but I recognized something deeper in that particular question — responding had broader meaning than just for my own particular experiment.

If I told Sheridan that using something like the Necromancer attunement to disable an attunement wasn’t heretical,  and  I  was  actually  considered  some  kind  ofspeaker for the visages, Sheridan could lean on that justification to claim that they had permission to do it in circumstances completely unrelated to my experiment. That was…kind of exhausting to think about. Were they planning something? Just asking to add a future potential tool to their disposal?Was I overthinking everything, like usual?It was hard to tell, so I gave what felt like a safe answer. “I suppose that would depend on the specific circumstances, which I’d have to evaluate on a case-by-case basis.”

“Not bad,” they muttered. “To answer your question, I could potentially stop a single rampant function temporarily, or perhaps the attunement as a whole very briefly, but I don’t have the level of expertise you’re looking for. As I’m certain you’ve come to understand, attunement mechanics is an entire field of research. My own studies are adjacent to it, so I have some knowledge, but not enough to be certain I could help.”

“Do you know anyone local that would be better suited to what I’m looking for?”

They considered that. “No one you would be wise to ask, I’m afraid. Before your mind turns to the Abjurer, I would advise against it. They possess the expertise, but involving them would add additional risks.”

The Ab…oh. Vellum. Of course Sheridan knows that Vellum is an Abjurer.

…Wait, can Abjurers disable attunements? That…does make some sense, I suppose. It’s not dissimilar from how Professor Vellum was able to vastly reduce Mizuchi’s power with banishment. I probably should look into how exactly banishment works at some point, as well as general Abjurer capabilities…But for now, hm.

I debated for a couple seconds before making my decision. “I’d like your help. You may not be able to handleeverything, but if we take things slow, test one step at a time…”

Sheridan stopped walking and turned to face me directly. “Just to be clear, you want my assistance in tearing apart one of the most fundamental building blocks of our society, religion, and culture?”

“That would be an accurate summation, yes.”

“Corin Cadence,” Sheridan bowed theatrically, “I would be absolutely delighted.”

***We concluded our talk quickly after that, with Sheridan offering to observe my process next time they visited, provided that I was ready by that point.

They also mentioned that they’d be coming over to visit Cecily and Sera soon about their “gardening project”. I had absolutely no idea what that was about, but didn’t ask. With Sheridan, expressing any lack of knowledge felt like showing my throat to a vicious beast.

So, with my heart pounding and my mind desperately reaching out for answers, I headed home.

