CHAPTER X – MEASURING PROGRESS

I quickly finished up my talk with Keras after that. I still had a number of questions for him, but…the knowledge that he’d be leaving soon, as well as my agreement to help charge the box, were too prominent in my mind. I couldn’t focus.

So, I excused myself, headed out of the room, and tried to focus on anything else that I possibly could.

I failed.

I worked on enchanting experiments, breathing exercises, and new spells. But in the end, I was still having that conversation in my mind for the rest of the night.

***The next day, I had my usual Physical Training, followed by my second session of Attunement Optimization class.

That particular lesson focused on a number of things that I was already familiar with.

Professor Saito talked a lot about choosing living spaces that had enough mana to bypass the Sunstone Wall, and how the location of Lorian Heights was planned by the founders to enable students to continue building their mana without any difficulties.

There was also some discussion about things like mana- enriched foods, like the fruits I’d been eating, as well as rarer substances like the meats of specific magical creatures. Natural monsters often built their strength almost entirely through eating other monsters…and you’d occasionally find organizations of people like the Tails of Orochi that developed methods to do the same. There was some debate if the Tails of Orochi’s members were all descended from hydras, or if they included ordinary people who had somehow learned to consume monster meat to enhance their abilities. Professor Saito didn’t weigh in on that particular subject one way or another.

There was some brief talk about enhancement elixirs, too, but I didn’t learn anything new. It just reinforced my desire to start working on them…just as soon as I finished the dozen-or-so more urgent projects on my list.

Since the lecture itself was mostly review, I had more time to notice that unusual iron-haired student. And, unfortunately, that meant that he also had more time to notice me noticing him.

His eyes widened the moment they met with mine. He tensed, looking like he was about ready to bolt out of the chair…then, very pointedly, took a deep breath, smiled shyly, and looked away.

After class, I chose to retreat quickly, much like he had last time. I thought that might have been the end of that, but my life could never be anything resembling simple.

***I headed straight to Intermediate Enchanting. I made sure to get there early, as Professor Wydran had requested.

Don’t overthink it. She’s probably not Wydd. She’s probably not going to kidnap you or use you to trace your brother or…I arrived in the classroom with my thoughts still swimming. Professor Wydran was waiting patiently. She stood up as I came in, offering my sigil back to me, and said simply, “You have no place in this class.”

I blinked. “What?”

“Take your sigil and this note.” She pulled a piece of paper out of a bag at her side. “I’m transferring you to the Advanced Enchanting class for third-year students. Frankly speaking, you’re probably too far ahead even for most of them, but it least it may have something useful.”

I stared blankly for a moment, then finally, with great hesitation, I took the sigil and the note. “…You’re sure about this?”

Professor Wydran chuckled. “Master Cadence — I did some research on you after inspecting the sigil. I checkedyour academic record. There are some interesting…gaps in that record. If I didn’t know any better, I’d say you’ve had that attunement for years, and just came to the school recently as some kind of show. But even that wouldn’t account for the purified mana in the sigil. You can’t be Citrine at your age. Not unless you’re an Edrian Prince, and we both know that there aren’t any of those at the school.”

I coughed, thinking of my early misidentification of Jin’s background. “Right. Of…course not. That would be ridiculous.”

“So, there’s clearly something unusual going on with you. I don’t know what it is, but you’re no ordinary second-year Enchanter.”

I hesitated, then finally, began to respond. “Well, I’m actually—”

“No.” She shook her head. “Don’t tell me. Try not to tell anyone.” Professor Wydran pushed up her glasses, then gave me a smile. “It’s more fun for everyone if you keep a secret or two.”

***After that, I got directions, then headed to the third-year Enchanting class. It was located in an unfamiliar building on the other side of campus, so I had to throw Haste on and run there to avoid missing the beginning. I may have looked a little silly as I pushed my way in the door, still panting with exhaustion.

At least I wasn’t embarrassing myself in front of a huge crowd.

The classroom only had a teacher and eight students inside. All of the other students wore black. The teacher, however, was an older gentleman wearing a pristine white suit. He raised a huge, bushy eyebrow at me as I entered. “Can I help you, young man?”

I held up a finger to buy myself a moment, took a deep breath, then just settled on handing him the note.

“I…see. A second-year student, but capable of making advanced items? Corin Cadence, is it?”

It occurred to me that I had never actually given my name to Professor Wydran. “Yes, sir.”

“Very well. Now, what’s this supposedly ‘advanced’ item the note mentioned.”

I sighed, preparing myself for another round of extreme scrutiny, then pulled the newly-made sigil out of my bag and handed it to him.

The old man took the sigil, turned it over in his hands, glancing at the runes with a neutral expression. Then, there was a brief flash of mana as he cast some kind of mental mana spell.

“Hm.” He frowned. “You were in a hurry when you made this?”

“I had to make it in a classroom in under two hours.”

That bushy eyebrow went up again. “And you did it on your own?”

I nodded.

He gave me an appraising look, then smiled softly. “Mister Cadence, I think you’ll fit in here just fine. Have a seat.”

There were plenty of empty chairs, but it would have been conspicuous to sit near the back. So, I just grabbed the nearest one and sat down.

“I’m Professor de Remy. This will not be a conventional class. You are not conventional students. Master Cadence, you missed the demonstrations on the first day. This,” he raised my sigil, “would have placed you toward the middle of our initial class rankings.” He tossed the sigil to a student to my right. “Holly, identify.”

She caught the sigil, inspecting it. “Shield sigil. Improved capacity. Improved shield regeneration. Improved base function. Health regeneration.” She frowned. “Mana regeneration. Hold on.” She whispered something, then her expression changed. Impressed, maybe? “Already purified,but without a purification function. Master Cadence purified the original mana manually somehow, but did not think to include a function for it.”

“Improvements?” Professor de Remy asked.

“Besides the obvious potential incremental increases to function potency, there’s a clear problem. There’s a life mana purification rune here. If Cadence can purify mana on his own, it’s completely superfluous.”

I nearly smacked my head on the table. She was absolutely right: it was superfluous. I’d just been putting them on every item because the original ring of regeneration had one. As long as I was using my own life mana to charge the items — which I was — no such rune was necessary.

And I’d been wasting time, mana capacity, and energy putting them on every single sigil I’d made in recent history.

“Good. Pass it to Tylan next,” the professor said. My face may have blanched.

Holly passed it to the next student, a short guy wearing a strange, gem-studded eyepatch over his left eye. He turned it over in his hands. “Hm. Little heavy, isn’t it?” After a pause, he clarified, “You’d be better off using a lighter metal, or just trimming this guy down. You’re not at capacity.”

“Not everyone likes to push right up against capacity maximums, Tylan,” another student interjected.

“Sure,” Tylan noted, “but they could. Next?” “Gregori,” the teacher intoned.

…And one by one, the class went through and pointed out flaws in my item, before finally, it went back to Holly.

“Conclusions?” The teacher asked her.

“It’s useful. I wouldn’t mind having one.” Finally, she handed it back to me. “Provided some improvements were made first, of course.”

“We won’t be commissioning each other right away,” the professor interjected. “But she raises an excellent point.

Your item gets high marks for utility, Master Cadence. It is an item that is useful to a broad variety of people. And do not feel overly bad about the critique. We did this with everyone else’s entries on the first day.”

I groaned. “…And I take it I don’t get a recap?”

“No,” the professor shook his head. “But it wouldn’t hurt to get you to look over the items made by the others, and to get your opinions on them. Class?”

At once, the eight black uniformed-students retrieved items from their bags. Bells. Canes. Widgets. Swords.

“Now, who’s first?”

Gregori handed me a return bell. An advanced return bell, one with added range, a more rapid recharge rate, and a broader starting area-of-effect.

I lifted it up, examining the runes, and then frowned. “… Where’s the anchor?’Gregori winced. “I…uh…”

“Cadence got it instantly,” Holly laughed. “Instantly!”

Gregori lowered his head. “…I…may have forgotten to make one.”

I nodded sagely. “…You know what?” I thought back to my final exam in Vellum’s class. “It happens to the best of us.”

As the other students passed me their items, I checked them over, finding tiny flaws…but they were good. Really good. Some of them were too advanced for me to come up with. Three of them involved compound runes, and in Holly’s case, dynamic ones.

Professor de Remy was right. I was going to fit in just fine.

***After we finished classes for the day, I went and found Sera to resume the previous day’s discussion. Researcher was back home, so Sera and I asked her to measure the mana in our crystal marks. There was, however, one small snag.

“The standard spell for displaying the safe mana capacity isn’t really designed for alternative mana sources,” Researcher explained. “Using it to measure a crystal mark isn’t going to provide perfectly accurate results. Do you still wish to proceed?”

I hesitated.

Sera was quick to answer, though. “I’m sure there’s an earlier spell out there for measuring crystal marks, isn’t there? Maybe in one of the books from Constantine’s library that you copied?”

I blinked. “Wait, what? You just mean the ones we borrowed, right? Researcher didn’t go with us.”

“While you are technically correct, in that I did not accompany you directly to your destination, Miss Cadence summoned me to Master Constantine’s library during your crystal trial. I remained there until I was summoned back to the train.”

I turned to Sera. “Wasn’t that a bit of a risk?”

“A minor one. That’s why I waited until after I’d spoken to Len before summoning Researcher — I needed to ascertain their motives. I believe that what Len told me about wanting to ‘free’ summoned monsters was a genuine goal and one that would not pose any immediate risk to Researcher, except perhaps the risk of Researcher wanting to break her contract and stay behind. Which would be her choice, if she wanted to.”

“If I may offer a correction, Miss Cadence, a significantly greater risk would be if I reported back to Researcher Prime that a facility existed for ‘freed’ summoned monsters, and Researcher Prime then reported that facility to an authority figure that chose to escalate the issue. Eventually, such a process could result in significant danger to anyone involved, including yourself.”

“Yes, I considered all that and deemed it unlikely to have any meaningful impact. There’s absolutely no chance the visages don’t already know about Constantine’s tower. Hisparanoia might assist with hiding the location from other threats, like national powers, but there’s no world in which someone like Ferras isn’t keeping watch on her former Arbiter.” Sera turned to me with a meaningful look. “Arbiters are too important to be ignored. Something you should keep in mind for the future.”

I winced. That was not the sort of attention I needed…but it also wasn’t a surprise. The trip to Caelford had done a great deal to put the significance of my Arbiter attunement into perspective. My assessment was that Katashi was probably too busy to be actively watching me at all times, but that he was probably going to be watching me on occasion, either through visage-scale divination magic or agents in the field.

…Which, in retrospect, raised questions about why Katashi ever had any difficulty finding anyone. Keras could potentially hide from a visage’s gaze with his mask, since it had supposedly been made by a dead god, but anyone else would have a difficult time unless they had something comparable.

That got some questions running through my mind, but Sera interrupted my thought process by waving a hand in front of my face. “Wake up, Corin. Come back down from the stars, our world still needs you.”

“Sorry, sorry.” I gave her a quick smirk. “You think our world needs me?”

“It’s an expression.” She rolled her eyes. “Anyway, we’re getting off topic. Yes, I summoned Researcher to the library at Constantine’s place. She copied as many books as she could.”

“When you say copied, do you mean physically, or…?”

Researcher shook her head. “I have merely stored the text of the books in my spiritual structure. Unfortunately, I do not presently have the means to rapidly generate physical copies of books. Oh, but that would be wonderful, would it not? I would postulate that with some combinationof memory magic and Sera’s new density magic, such a thing would be possible. Admittedly, wood magic would be more appropriate for copying paper, but perhaps we could emulate it with a sufficiently paper-like substance…”

“Researcher. Focus.” Sera sighed. “Goddess, I swear, it’s like herding ducks with you two.”

“Do people…herd ducks?” I blinked.

“Obviously, Corin. You have to keep them from using their petrifying gaze on things somehow.”

“…I think those might be cockatrices you’re thinking of, Sera.”

“No, petrifying ducks. Moving on. Researcher, can you parse through the text of those books to find an appropriate spell?”

“Yes, I can do so. Please wait, this may take several minutes…”

We played Crowns while we waited. Sera won, obviously, but with surprising difficulty…and I may have been overthinking it, but I had suspicions as to why.

I had a significant amount of mental mana from my Enchanter attunement now, as well as the benefits of a crystal mark of transcendence, which was a composite mana type formed from mental mana and life mana. Both were theoretically improving my own mental abilities, but in ways that were both incremental and subtle, at least in comparison to something like my ever-increasing speed from generating transference mana.

The mind is a complicated thing. People like to talk about measuring things like “intelligence”, but if my experience with mental mana has taught me anything, there’s no way to accurately summarize that in a single attribute. It isn’t even governed by a single mana type — mental and perception mana influence different types of intellectual ability, and so do each of their many various composite types. So, it would be reductive to say that I was getting“smarter” from having more mental mana…but I was measurably improving in some specific mental exercises.

In spite of Keras teasing me about throwing swords not being a viable means of using them, I was getting extremely accurate at throwing things — and just making projections on how to aim attacks in general. I’d already been above- average in accuracy with things like dueling canes before I’d even gotten my attunement, but it was hard to say how much of that was inherent ability and how much of it was years of practice. It was clearly some combination of both — I remember getting good scores at target practice with canes even as a child without any real experience, but nothing that was noteworthy.

Now?I rarely missed with attacks at static targets…and, in fact, I rarely missed moving targets unless they rapidly changed directions. And even then, I was getting better at accounting for it.

Basically, the part of my mind that calculated things like ranges, movement speeds, and trajectories was measurably improving as my mental mana increased.

But that wasn’t what was helping me with Crowns.

The second factor I’d managed to note clear improvement in was my memory. Keras had first illustrated it to me by pointing out that he didn’t remember the exact appearance of every rune he’d come across…but I did. Admittedly, the story he was telling from the train was from a much earlier time period — nine years ago — and I don’t know if even my improved memory would allow me to retain the exact appearance of every rune I’d seen for nine years. But thus far…I hadn’t had much difficulty memorizing anything I’d seen since I’d gotten my attunement. More recent images were clearer, likely both due to their recency and my mana accumulation.

It's not just visuals, either. I could remember conversations  better,  songs,  even  my  own  thoughtprocesses…And I could remember Crowns moves. I remembered how different plays had gone in our previous matches, how Sera responded when I moved individual pieces.

…But that didn’t mean I could always apply that toward creating a winning strategy. And Sera’s playstyle wasn’t static — she’d sometimes respond to exactly the same play in different ways. I didn’t know if this was that she was experimenting, learning, or perhaps reading ahead based on physical or verbal cues on my part.

Either way, she was still out-performing me most of the time…but I was learning. That was a good feeling.

…The feeling that an external power source was modifying the way that my mind worked was less of a good feeling, since it felt something like I was becoming less of myself through that process…but as long as it was inherently beneficial, I’d still pursue it. I hated the idea of additional mana making my brain so distinct that I couldn’t be “Corin” anymore, but on a rational level, I knew that my mind was being modified by so many other factors that it wasn’t much different…just larger in scale and more tangible.

Anyway, we played Crowns, then Researcher found a spell.

“Who would like to go first?” Researcher asked.

“Here, check mine,” Sera offered, reaching out her hand with an enviable lack of hesitation at human contact. Or, uh, non-human contact, I suppose.

Researcher accepted Sera’s hand, then closed her eyes and concentrated for a moment. “Identify Mana Level. Identify Mana Composition.” Researcher pulled away a hand. “You have a base of ten density mana available. Now, cast a density spell with a mana level lower than that.”

Sera nodded in understanding, then opened her palm upward. “Lesser Conjure Object.” A tiny sphere of greencrystal appeared in her hand. “That’s a ten-mana base spell.”

“Excellent. Now, I’ll measure again…” Sera reached out her hand and Researcher cast Identify Mana level a second time. “Your remaining mana is six point six six…repeating, of course, but regrettably the spell doesn’t give me greater granularity.”

“Not sure we need more granularity,” I noted. Researcher looked at me like she was personally affronted by the concept of rounding numbers, but I continued, “it’s essentially a three to one efficiency rate, right?”

“Essentially,” Researcher admitted, “but without an exact figure…”

“It’s good enough, Researcher. Thank you. Corin, would you like to go next?”

I hesitated, but only briefly. It’s for a mana measurement.

And it’s just Researcher.

I reached out my hand. Researcher took it. “Identify Mana Level. Identify Mana composition…hm.”

“Hm?” I frowned nervously.

“Oh, it’s nothing. Just the same mana base — it’s exactly ten. I was speculating about whether or not this might be a standardized value.”

I exhaled in relief. “Oh. That…would make sense, yes.” My mind had already been racing through the ways in which a mana detection spell could have revealed that I was somehow about to die horribly. Just a bit of speculation was much milder than that.

‘Would you like to cast a spell now?” Researcher asked. “Oh. Right, right.” I tried to shut more fatalism out of mymind and focus. I’d picked out several spells for this test earlier in the day, decided on one, changed my mind repeatedly, then “settled” and promptly changed my mind again.

Sera had picked a ten-mana spell, which was a good idea for standardization and measurement purposes. I did thesame. I didn’t speak it aloud, though, since that wasn’t my casting method.

I concentrated on the crystal mark in my hand, felt the new mana flowing inside, and reached in to activate it in the same fashion I would for an attunement…except without the extra mana-conversion steps, since they weren’t needed. It was surprisingly simple, even if it was also absolutely terrifying to be tinkering with a new type of magic.

I decided to play it safe and go with one that wouldn’t radically alter the way my body or mind operated.

Transcendent Detect Aura.

Several things in my vision began to glow. Sera’s Invoker attunement showed as a swirling mixture of turquoise and grey, her crystal mark’s aura was a solid wall of mixed green and brown, Ceris at her hip was a strange mixture of green and gold with white sparks. Researcher as a whole glowed bright purple.

Huh.

The spell wasn’t dissimilar from a standard Detect Aura spell, but as the name implied, it showed things a standard Detect Aura spell couldn’t pick up. There were simple mental mana spells that could show aura colors — in fact, I already knew some, and my Lesser Identify and Identify spells worked on similar principles. The transcendence version I used had a critical advantage, however. It could perceive elemental power inside someone’s body, whereas standard mental mana variants only perceived auras that were being emitted from a person or object.

From a practical standpoint, the difference was relatively minimal. The principal advantage was that this would help identify elemental powers in creatures that didn’t have a shroud, like specific non-spire monsters. If I ever ran into any Buried, for example, this would help determine what elements they had, which would in turn help me figure out if they had access to specific spells…and potentially their weaknesses. This wasn’t anything like a unique advantage.

There were stronger mental mana spells that could accomplish exactly the same thing. But this was a cheaper mana cost than those powerful mental mana spells, since it operated by bypassing the body’s natural magic defenses, rather than brute forcing through them.

All in all, it wasn’t any sort of life changing spell, but that wasn’t the point. I just needed something basic that worked— and it did.

The next test was equally important.

Release Transcendent Detect Aura.

I successfully turned the spell off.

One of my main paranoid concerns was whether or not I’d be able to disable an active spell effect from the crystal mark properly. A bit paranoid, maybe, but Sera’s spell hadn’t been one that required active maintenance. If I’d kept my spell active, it would have continuously drained my mana to maintain itself. I had contingency plans in place for if I failed to turn the spell off properly — everything from neutralizing the spell through using my Mr. Stabbington’s void powers to forcefully turning my crystal mark off by attempting to alter the sub-glyphs within it.

(Tinkering with sub-glyphs would have been a last resort, of course — I didn’t even know if it was structured like an attunement. I hadn’t tried playing with it yet, and I wasn’t planning to until I’d done more reading.)Anyway, I didn’t need to resort to any of my panic plans, which was probably for the best for everyone involved.

“Are you ready?” Researcher asked, looking excited. “Oh, right.” I extended my hand again. She took it.

“Identify Mana Level.” She paused for a moment. “Hm, marginally lower than Sera’s, at six point five four mana remaining…”

“The spell I used was one with active maintenance, it probably drained an extra sliver of mana during the moment I kept it active.”

“Ah, yes. That would potentially account for the difference…but if you don’t mind, could you run another test with a spell with a static mana cost to satisfy my curiosity about the discrepancy?”

“Uh, I’m not sure if I know any transcendence spells with static mana costs. They’re basically all actively-maintained beneficial spells…although I suppose there are a bunch of possible variants of established spells, like adding transcendence mana to a regeneration spell to make a Transcendent Regeneration spell. I haven’t studied those yet, though.”

Researcher’s expression sank momentarily, but I raised my other hand. “Wait, wait. Hold on. I’ll look up a quick variant on this one that can be cast on someone else.”

That didn’t take long — just a few minutes to find the procedural differences. Honestly, I probably didn’t even need to reference a book, but I was being very careful. After that, at Researcher’s urging, I cast Transcendent Detect Aura on her, then checked my mana again.

“It’s the same efficiency as Sera’s,” Researcher confirmed. “Approximately three-to-one.”

“That’s…weirdly low, isn’t it?” Sera asked. “Didn’t Keras think it would be higher?”

“Master Selyrian was likely comparing it to expected mana efficiency rates for a novice dominion sorcerer. While crystal marks function to emulate dominion sorcery, their internal operations are not identical.”

I considered that. “Hm. I suppose a dominion sorcerer has a full body worth of star veins…those are what they use to connect to the dominions, right? And we’ve only got whatever the crystal mark has in one hand, presuming it isn’t accessing the star veins in our body as a whole. It may not even be using the star veins in our hand, just emulating their functionality somehow. Researcher, do you think we could look at how the crystal mark works and see if we could improve the efficiency?”

Researcher took a step back, looking deeply uncomfortable. “Regrettably, I am unable to comply with your request at this time. This subject is outside of the bounds of my authority to discuss.”

“…Even with your Summoner? And an Arbiter?” I asked. “If it is a request from an Arbiter, I could attempt tocontact my prime-self and ask for authorization, however…” Sera put a hand on Researcher’s shoulder. “It’s fine.

Cancel that request.”

“Arbiter, confirm cancellation?” Researcher’s tone was strangely pleading.

“Uh, yeah, confirmed. Cancel that.”

Researcher exhaled a sigh of relief. Sera shot me a grateful look. I wondered what exactly had just happened.

We’d discussed having Researcher contact her prime self or other Researchers for information before…why was this different? She loved learning things and discussing them…Was there some kind of inherent risk here?Forbidden knowledge, I realized. This must be classified as forbidden knowledge.

And if it is…then Wydd might be displeased with her for discussing it at all. And displeased with us for asking about it.

The consequences for pushing too far on that could be severe. Sera must have realized that immediately, based on Researcher’s visceral response.

“Let’s change the subject,” Sera offered. “Shall we measure our mana regeneration rates?”

Researcher nodded vehemently.

Things settled down a bit after that. A few quick tests indicated	that	the	crystal	mark	took	longer	than	an attunement to recharge, seemingly designed to refill every eight hours. That was a bit irritating, but I suspected it had to do with safety, so I didn’t try to tinker with it immediately. I intended to attempt to recharge our crystal marks with my Arbiter mark eventually, but first, I’d have to figure outhow to convert mana from other parts of my body into the right type for the crystal mark. My operating assumption was that since the crystal marks only utilized one kind of mana, they wouldn’t have the functions to convert mana that an attunement did. Thus, if I tried to shove random mana into a crystal mark…well, at a minimum, it wouldn’t work. More likely? Another patented Corin hand-explosion.

I suspected it wouldn’t take me long to figure out how to convert mana in my own body into transcendence mana, now that I had it accessible within my body, and then recharge my own crystal mark. Converting mana into any type I didn’t personally have access to would be much, much harder — to the extent that I didn’t intend to try it at all in the near future. My plan was to work with Sera to make a density mana battery, then use that as a baseline for converting mana in my body into density to try to recharge her…but only after I’d done considerable research on the plausibility of the plan. I didn’t know if crystal marks were built to be manually recharged at all.

Fortunately, if Researcher had copied many of the books in Constantine’s library into her mind, we had a lot of resources to draw from to answer those questions…it was just about parsing through that data, as well as the physical books I borrowed, for the answers.

For the moment, I was happy just to make some progress. A ten-mana mark with three to one efficiency effectively meant I had thirty extra mana to play with, which didn’t feel like a lot anymore, but it was effectively half of a Carnelian-level attunement. That wasn’t bad, especially given that it was an entirely new mana type.

…And one that, if I wasn’t mistaken, could potentially be used to compound with both my mental mana and my life mana, if I figured out how to link the crystal mark to my attunements. That was a much more daunting task than even figuring out if I could recharge it, but in the long-term, compounded life mana sounded fantastic.

Compounded mental mana…well, it sounded very powerful, but also absolutely terrifying. I’d have to think on if I wanted to pursue that. I’m aware of the irony in that statement.

I turned back to Researcher after we finished the tests. “One more question, before I forget. You don’t have to answer if it’s considered restricted information.”

“I would be pleased to answer it if I am aware of the answer and permitted to do so. How may I assist you?”

“Did Warren Constantine have any entire books on transcendence mana among the things you copied?”

“Regrettably, no, but a handful of books have large sections on the subject. I would be pleased to assist you with locating the ones with pertinent information any inquiries you may have.”

I considered. “A follow-up question, then. Is there anything you’re aware of in terms of transcendence spells for improving mana growth rates, directly or indirectly? Similar to the benefits from my Arbiter mark.”

I hoped that phrasing it in that way made it less likely for the request to come across asking for more forbidden knowledge, but I wasn’t sure it would help.

Researcher closed her eyes briefly. “Processing. One moment…” Her eyes flicked open a second later. “I have discovered a section of experimental spells for improving star vein efficacy. The baseline spell, the ostentatiously- named ‘Embrace the Stars’, is intended to temporarily increase essence usage efficiency when drawing from a dominion. This is largely designed for dominion sorcery, but the author speculated that repeated usage could theoretically improve general star vein strength.”

“That sounds perfect! At least as a starting place. What level of spell is it?”

“The base spell is listed at Citrine-C, with a mana cost of 486 mana.”

I groaned. Even if I figured out how to convert all of my mana into transcendence, I still didn’t have enough to cast it a single time. If I made some batteries, maybe…but I doubted the utility of burning through my whole mana pool and multiple batteries to cast a single experimental efficiency-enhancement spell. The spell was clearly designed for someone who already had thousands of transcendence mana to draw from. It was a good find, but not immediately usable.

“…Copy down that section of the book for me anyway, if you can. It’ll be a while before I can cast anything like it, but I may as well learn the theory behind it. Maybe I can figure out a weaker version eventually, or some other variant that still can give long-term benefits.”

“I would be happy to do so. Please be advised that this spell was experimental, however, and even once you possess a sufficient mana pool, it may not work as expected.”

More problems for future me.

The rest of the afternoon passed easily, with a couple more minor tests and a fair bit of reading. With a few more new spells picked out to tinker with, I swiftly had a new training routine planned for the week.

…And I’d get that postponed rooftop match to test out transcendence magic against density soon enough.

***Later in the evening, I opened a book. Not for academic study, in this case, but with hopes of learning something regardless.

Sadly, Trials of Judgment contained no new revelations. I’d written to Tristan a few times on the train ride, but I still hadn’t heard anything back.

I’d hoped that the messages I’d written previously would be sent to him as soon as I was back in range, but I wasn’t actually sure how the enchantments on the book worked. It was possible that any writing that occurred while I was outof range was simply wasted, and that the same could be true for any messages Tristan had sent me while I was out of the book’s range.

…Of course, it was also possible that Tristan simply hadn’t replied. Maybe he was simply too busy, or he’d lost the book that he needed to use to reply somehow, or…I didn’t want to finish that thought, but it was obvious — Tristan could be dead.

Mizuchi had seemingly been actively trying to find a way to get to Tristan while he was vulnerable. Even if Tristan had remained within Tenjin’s inner sanctum, there was a possibility that Mizuchi had managed to get in…or found some other type of way to handle him. Could she have summoned him out somehow, similar to how she’d summoned Sera? That had been possible due to Sera’s attempt to bind Mizuchi, but perhaps there were other ways to exploit summoning magic.

…The Jaden Box had no need for any sort of binding to summon someone, just something physically connected to them to use as a focus. She’d injured Tristan in their fight. Had Mizuchi gathered some of Tristan’s blood? If so, could she have summoned him that way?…It was useless to speculate. There were simply too many variables.

So, I tried to ignore the foreboding feeling in my mind as I wrote another reply. A brief one — anything else seemed excessive until I confirmed his state.

Dear Mysterious Book Entity,I’m writing to confirm that I am safely back in Valia and attending Lorian Heights. I have sent a variety of other messages, but I am uncertain if they were received.

Please confirm that my messages have been going through, as well as your safety, at your convenience.

Yours in hope, Corin CadenceMy fingers trembled as I wrote the last words.

Why was I just…sitting here? What could I do to help?I thought about that for many hours, wrestling with my own mind as I searched for answers, until finally the blissful nothing of sleep overtook me.

