CHAPTER XVI – GROWING PAINS

I didn’t like feeling like I was behind. There were numerous instances where this was applicable in my life, but at that moment, I had a very specific gap in my knowledge and the means to fill it.

…Presuming I was willing to do something I’d been avoiding.

There was an easier approach, but I didn’t take it. Not that time. Instead of seeking Sera, I went and knocked on Cecily’s door.

I’d barely seen her since she’d moved into Derek’s house. I mean, I’d seen her, but it would be more accurate to say that we’d hardly interacted at all. We seemed to be avoiding each other with roughly equal fervor.

When she opened her door, she let out a little gasp of surprise (which was fair), then nervously reached up and adjusted her crooked glasses. “C…Corin. What…did you need something?”

“Uh, hi, Cecily.” I gave my best impression of a friendly smile, but I’d never been good at those. My idea of a smile had always been more like a child’s crayon drawing — the intention behind it was probably clear, but the details were off just enough to be discomforting. “I was just, uh, talking to Sheridan Theas, and they mentioned something about a gardening project that you and Sera were working on?”

“Oh!” Cecily visibly brightened, the tension seeming to leave her shoulders. “That! Yes, of course, I’ve been meaning to tell you. We’ll need your help. I mean, only definitively for one step, but possibly for a second step, depending on how the early tests go, and if you’re willing to contribute something that might be dangerous, and depending on your level of control, and—”

I raised a finger in a “wait” gesture. “Turn the hourglass a bit, please. I don’t even know the nature of the project yet.”

“Sorry, sorry! I just assumed that Sheridan…okay.” “Breathe, Cecily.”

Cecily let out a nervous laugh. “Sorry. Did you, uh, want to come in?” Cecily turned around, took one look at her room, then hastily turned back to me and blushed. “Oronsecondthought maybe we could go talk downstairs?”

Cecily’s room didn’t look particularly embarrassing at my estimation — why, her laundry piles were even vaguely color coded, that was much more organized than mine — but I didn’t want to make her more uncomfortable than she obviously already was. So, I accepted her offer, and we went downstairs to sit at the kitchen table. No one else was downstairs at the moment, so we had the place to ourselves.

“So. Garden. Start from the beginning?” I asked.

“Right, right. So, you recall the Goddess’ Tear that is supposed to heal virtually anything? Of course you do, silly question, you have it in your box, and…”

I frowned as a few pieces slipped together.

I did still have the Goddess’ Tear preserved in the Jaden Box. I’d been expecting Sera to ask for it to make the elixir to heal her mana scarring at any time. Of course, she’d need an alchemist to actually make the elixir with the plant, and Cecily had been studying alchemy. That seemed like a good solution, since Vellum had refused to help.

But the word gardening implied… “You’re planning to plant it? My understanding is that they can’t survive for long without the hyper-specific conditions of where they grow in the Vanreach Mountains.”

“Yes. Due to their notorious frailty, most people are reluctant to gamble the valuable flower on the possibility of being able to grow more. In spite of that, attempts have been made to reproduce the flowers, but all recorded efforts have ended in failure.”

“…And Sera still wants to take that risk?”

Cecily nodded. “When we first discussed it, Sera wanted me to prepare the elixir, then to give it to Chancellor Meltlake to fix her leg.”

I gasped. “That…that’s quite a sacrifice to make. Sera has recovered from her scarring significantly, but it’s still slowing her down, and…”

“I agree. I told her that I thought Meltlake would refuse the offer, and we went back and forth for a bit before I hit on an idea that might convince Meltlake to accept a flower.”

“Duplicating it so they both can have one…or even more people could. I understand the advantages, of course, but what makes you confident that you can succeed where others have failed?”

Cecily let out a nervous laugh. “I wouldn’t say I’m confident. Not at all. I regretted speaking the idea the moment it came out of my mouth. But…Sera loved it. And… we talked it over with each other, and with Researcher, and we think it might be possible.”

“How?”

“Researcher was willing to assist us with, well, researching previous attempts. We’ve found many of what we believe were the critical components for the flowers to grow — including the specific types of soil from Vanreach, the temperature and atmosphere, mana saturation…with those details, others were able to preserve a flower for a significant time, but failed to get another flower to grow. They identified that the flowers do have seeds, but that those seeds appear to require something specific to grow — something that the research papers called the ‘living frost of the goddess.’”

My eyes widened.

Living frost. That’s…“You think that’s…Selys-Lyann?” I glanced down to the sword at my hip. The name literally translated to “Sword of the Goddess”, or something along those lines. The ice aura around the blade spread, seemingly of its own accord.

Could something like that help a flower grow?“Not precisely,” Cecily clarified. “Rather, we believe that there is some kind of magical effect on Vanreach that has an effect similar to your sword. Perhaps the goddess herself truly creates these flowers using means similar to the blessing on your sword. Alternatively, it’s possible there is some sort of creature living in the mountains with similar frost abilities — a child of Seiryu seems a likely possibility. And that brings us to another option to explore.”

“You think Seiryu might help?”

Cecily nodded. “It’s possible. Sera still does not have permission to summon Seiryu outside of the spire, but she does have a contract that enables her to use ice magic provided directly from Seiryu. She has not learned any spells that would qualify as ‘living frost’, but she has been debating trying to use her bond to communicate with Seiryu directly to ask for the god beast to teach her such a spell — or intervene directly for the purpose of helping the flowers.” “Is that something she can do?” I raised an eyebrow. “Imean, just talk to Seiryu?”

“I don’t know the details, but Summoners have the ability to contact their contracted entities without summoning them for the purposes of contract renegotiation. I think it’s something like a Wayfarer’s communication magic, but limited in scope. Sera hasn’t told me everything. I think she knows how to do it already, but hasn’t actually asked that specific question yet. She might be afraid that Seiryu would be offended, given that the tears are sacred.”

I nodded. “Would it be safer to try Selys-Lyann?”

“In the sense that it wouldn’t risk offending Seiryu, yes. We believe that approach has a higher chance of damaging or destroying the flower or seeds, though, because even if Selys-Lyann has the ‘right’ kind of frost, we wouldn’t know how long the ice should be maintained, or if there’s some kind of necessary concentration…or if you’re supposed to freeze the seed itself, or just some of the nearby soil, or…”

“I get it. We don’t have enough information that way… but yeah, talking to Seiryu does sound like a risk. On the other hand…I’m an Arbiter. Do you think that kind of authority would be useful to avoid any sort of heresy problems?”

“I…honestly have no idea.”

I pondered for a moment. “Why hasn’t Sera asked me about this yet?”

“I…we…we know you’re going through a hard time right now, Corin. And you do a lot for all of us. No one wants to bother you with more work if we can avoid it.”

I didn’t really know what to say to that. “I…don’t mind.

This is important.”

“Beyond that…Sera might want to feel like she can do it without you. I mean, aside from retrieving the flower from the box.”

That did make a degree of sense. I knew she’d been feeling down about herself, so needing to ask me for help might have hurt her pride.

Still…we’d work better as a team for something like this. At least in theory. And this was an incredibly important idea. If we could figure out a way to duplicate the flower reliably… My mind swam with the possibilities. How many climbers and delvers had serious injuries they’d never been able to heal? How many ordinary civilians had long-term problems that a Goddess’ Tear might be able to address if they weremass produced?Could we truly help both Sera and Meltlake?…And what about people like Lars, too?A Goddess’ Tear wouldn’t replace his lost attunement, would it? Even if it didn’t, though, I imagined it would potentially be able to regrow a lost limb…maybe.

I didn’t want to get my hopes up too high, but…I could see why both Cecily and Sera were considering risking the one flower we had on this kind of idea.

“I’ll help,” I said simply. “When do we start?”

“You may want to talk to Sera first.”

I nodded simply at that. “Will do. Thanks for the info, Cecily.”

“…You’re welcome.”

I stood up. Cecily looked like there was something else she wanted to say, but after a moment of deliberation, she simply stood, bowed slightly, and went back to her room.

What was that about?I was curious, but I wasn’t quite ready to ask.

***I found Sera just a bit later, when she came down for dinner. When that happened, I was ready.

“So,” I opened, “gardening project.”

“Heard about that, did you?” She poured herself a bowl of cereal, which was an atypical dinner for her. I assumed she was in a hurry for some reason.

I slipped a piece of paper across the table to her.

“What’s this?” She lifted it up. “…Corin Cadence, Arbiter of Katashi, formally requests your cooperation with…? Is this real?”

“It is, in fact, real.” I smiled. “I found Researcher a little earlier, and it turns out there’s a formal template for Arbiters to request something that falls within their area of influence. Typically, it’s used to either request something from a visage directly, or from the priesthood, or a government. But in this case…”

Sera skimmed through it. “…This is clever. Dangerous, but clever. And uncharacteristically politically savvy of you. Who put you up to this?”

“No one. Sheridan told me about the gardening project—”

“Ah. Of course this was Deni’s idea.”

I folded my arms. “It wasn’t. Sheridan only gave me a couple words. Cecily elaborated…and I decided this was the best way to help. I mean, unless you’d prefer to use Selys- Lyann, or involve me in some other way. And I don’t want topresume anything — I know you might not want to take this route. If so, we can just tear it up.”

“No, this is…” Sera exhaled a breath. “This is a wonderful gift, Corin. I’ve been nervous to ask Seiryu for help. This… this makes it much, much more viable. Seiryu isn’t under your jurisdiction in any way, but…the bit about water magic falling under Katashi’s area of influence due to the location of the water temple and Tortoise Spire…that’s good. It might actually be enough to convince her, if my request alone isn’t enough.”

“Do you think the terms were unreasonable?”

Sera frowned at that. “Yes. But only in one detail. You can’t ask for something as open-ended as help with me with creating more Goddess’ Tears. I mean, you can, but that’s a big ask as far as contracts go, since it’s effectively asking for assistance with an indefinite duration. You should limit the scope.”

“In what way? To just advice?”

Sera shook her head. “No, I think getting direct help like you’ve proposed is good. I think we need to limit the time and number of flowers, at least for the initial project. If it works, we could ask for more.”

“Hm. If I’m leveraging the Arbiter angle…six flowers and six months?”

Sera snapped her fingers. “Yes. Perfect. After that, we could simply take one or two and store them back in the box until we can negotiate further, use a couple more to experiment on growing more on our own, then…”

“Use the last couple for yourself and Meltlake?” “…Yeah. Cecily told you about that?”

I nodded. “I think it’s a good idea. She might refuse, but…I think it’d be great for her morale if you could help her. Not to mention an improvement to her combat abilities. And, if things stay as dangerous as they have been, or get worse…”

“We may need our allies to be as strong as physically possible. I agree.” Sera exhaled a breath. “Okay. You’re sure you’re up for helping with this?”

“Absolutely. This is important.”

“…Thanks. Now, I’ve been studying Summoner contracts for a while, and I know Seiryu. Let’s make a few changes to the wording here…”

We worked on the contract until late in the night. It felt… surprisingly nice to put our heads together to work on solving a problem.

In the end, I think Sera felt better about the whole idea. She still wanted to run the concept by Sheridan and Elora before taking any action. I agreed that was wise.

Next time Sheridan visits, we’re going to have two new and exciting ways we could destroy ourselves, or possibly everyone here.

In spite of the nervous twinge in my mind, I felt good about it. I felt excited.

If even one of our plans worked, we’d be carving new paths toward a better future.

For the first time in days, I slept easily that night.

***The following day, I sat in the kitchen with several others, signing a piece of paper that marked a formal agreement.

Corin Cadence. Sera Cadence.

Patrick Wayland-Cadence. Marissa Callahan.

Jin Dalen.

…And, with great trepidation, I watched as Jin passed the paper to the unlikely sixth member of our team. One who Sera had somehow hunted down and recruited in my absence, after Cecily had decided to stay with her own pre- existing team for the year.

A powerful addition, no doubt, but a risk that I couldn’t ignore.

The iron-haired swordsman raised his pen and wrote his full name on the form:Ruto Muramasa.

