CHAPTER XIV – SILVER AND IRON

When I approached the house, I found someone literally standing in the middle of the road near the entrance.

The man with iron hair.

By the time I saw him there, Lute was already watching me. Perhaps “studying” is a better word. The way his gaze followed my approach left no question that he had been waiting for me.

I glanced at the house behind him — it wasn’t far. Help would be close if he was planning to attack, but would it be close enough? Would anyone be watching?His hand wasn’t near his sword, but it didn’t have to be.

I’d seen how quickly he could move.

Of course, I had no real reason to suspect that he was there with any kind of hostile intent — I was just cautious. Lute’s interest in me was extreme in a way that was more than a little worrying. If he had something to do with the sacred swords, as I suspected he did, there was a high probability that his goal had to do with collecting them — that was, after all, traditionally the “quest” associated with the swords.

And, if the stories I’d been reading since childhood were any indication, wielders didn’t usually leave each other without a trail of blood following behind the survivor.

…Keras might have seemed an exception in the tales he’d begun to tell us, but given the absence of any of the legendary weapons by his side, clearly something had happened. I regretted not asking more about the subject in the days before it became relevant to my own life.

I could have just ignored him and found another path, I suppose, but that seemed a little extreme. Instead, I approached Lute cautiously, prepared to defend myself in the unlikely event that he chose to assault me in the middle of the street outside my borrowed home.

“Corin Cadence.” Lute reached up and adjusted his glasses as I approached. “I’ve been anticipating your arrival for some time.”

Well, that certainly eliminated the minimal doubt that I was the one he was looking for. I was too stressed to dance around anything and just asked the obvious question. “Why? Is this about the dueling team, or something else?”

“The dueling team…? Ah, I see. Yes, I suppose meeting to discuss dueling strategy would be an obvious justification if such discussions were necessary to ensure success. No, while I would not be opposed to taking actions to optimize our scoring potential, that is of comparatively little importance.”

That was…direct, at least. And the implication that he’d be willing to discuss strategy implied he wasn’t planning to kill me on the spot, which was a good sign. “What’s this about, then?”

“You asked me a question about my interest in you previously, but you interrupted me before I could fully answer. I haven’t been able to get it off my mind since.”

I blinked. “I…uh, sorry? You were about to disclose something private in a public space.”

Lute watched me quietly for a moment, with no visible indications of what he was thinking. The absolute absence of movement was jarring — it was the type of thing where I would have expected an ordinary person to make some kind of movement I could associate with their state of mind. Finally, he said, “I see. This was a miscalculation on my part. It would seem I still have much to learn about which capabilities are to be considered private and public. You have my apologizes for any inconvenience this may have caused.”

“…Uh, sure? Not a problem.” I glanced from side-to-side awkwardly. There were other people around, but not particularly close by. “Then, you came here to give me a full answer?”

“Among other things, yes. But given that I do not understand your initial criteria for refusal, I am not certain if this is an appropriate space for the conversation.”

“I…no, I’d still prefer to talk somewhere more private.” I hesitated. Was I willing to take him to where I was living? He’d clearly already figured it out — we were just down the road — but bringing him in would potentially introduce risks to anyone else living there.

It would, of course, also increase my own chances of survival if a fight broke out.

I had no idea how dangerous Lute actually was or what his true motivations looked like. After weighing them, though, I decided that my best chances of getting answers— and any kind of resolution to this situation — was the simplest solution. “Follow me.”

I waved for him to follow, hoping that I wasn’t making a terrible mistake, and guided him straight through the maze and into the house.

Patrick and Sera were chatting in the dining room as we entered. Patrick looked a little surprised as we entered, but waved cheerfully. “Hey, Corin! Hey, Lute!”

Lute tilted his head downward in greeting. “Patrick Wayland-Cadence, Wielder of Bright Reflection. Greetings. I would be interested in speaking to you as well.”

Sera gave Lute a quizzical look. “You’re their new team member, right? I’m Sera Cadence.”

“Corin’s sibling? I would also offer you my greetings, Sera Cadence. I am pleased to have the opportunity to meet you.”

“Likewise. I saw your work in the arena — I’ve been very curious about some of your techniques.”

“Indeed. I would be interested in learning about some of your abilities as well.” Lute adjusted his glasses as I closed the front door, then gestured to the table.

Lute took a seat, folding his arms across his lap in a style that struck me as both formal and foreign. I sat down acrossfrom him.

“Before we get into any further introductions for the others, let me give you a chance to fully answer my earlier question. This location is private enough. I trust Patrick and Sera with anything you might say.”

Lute breathed a sigh of relief. “Thank you. Unanswered questions are a source of…stress for me. To answer your query, I approached you because you have a crystal mark of transcendence, but also due to recognizing you as a wielder. That latter factor is complicated further by Patrick Wayland- Cadence’s weapon, a reproduction of the sacred sword Dawnbringer with a level of fidelity that I have not encountered previously.”

“You’re familiar with the real Dawnbringer, then?” I asked.

Lute seemed to ponder that. “I apologize, but that answer is restricted.”

“Restricted.” I gave him a flat look. “Who are you, really?”

“That is an open-ended question. Who is anyone, truly? Can the truth of it be found in a name, or a place of birth? Can it—”

Keras took that moment to walk half-way down the stairs and freeze.

Lute’s head turned toward him mid-sentence, his lips twisting upward as his musing answer was abandoned.

“Lute.” Keras’ expression dropped. His hands flexed in the air, as if he’d considered reaching for his sword, but actively stopped himself.

Lute stood up from his chair, turning to Keras and bowing deeply at the waist. “Hello, big brother.”

***Everyone took a moment to process that.

Keras tensed, but after a moment he seemed to make a decision and finished walking down the stairs. “You shouldn’t have come here.” He walked until he was a fewsteps apart from Lute, then to my surprise, he mimicked Lute’s formal bow.

Lute stood up straight after, giving Keras a questioning look.

Keras stood up, looked a little tense for a moment, then sighed and opened his arms wide.

Lute rushed closer, allowing Keras to sweep the iron- haired man up into a huge hug. Lute laughed with childlike glee that was an absolute contrast to everything I’d seen from him so far.

I instinctively winced at the display of affection, but it mostly left me more confused. I gave them a moment for Keras to set Lute back down on the ground, but that was the limit of my politeness. “A brother? Keras, you’ve never mentioned any siblings.”

“We’re not related. Not like that.” Keras shook his head at me. “He’s—”

“You should have been my sibling, even by human standards. That is what one calls the siblings of a pacted partner, is it not?”

“Marriage is a little different from that, Lute. And we were never…” Keras shook his head. “We are not supposed to talk about this. And we’re not supposed to see each other. That…that was part of the deal, wasn’t it? I…”

Lute smiled sadly. “You still can’t remember, can you?”

Keras sighed. “…No. I get flashes, but the suppression remains in place.”

Well, that’s not alarming or anything.

“I could help you with that, you know. It isn’t my area of expertise, of course, but restoration of memories is within my abilities.”

Keras tilted his head downward to look at Lute more closely. “It isn’t like you to disobey your father. Has something changed? Why are you here?”

“Father has taken an interest in recent events in this region. I have been given broad latitude to determine thenecessary response in case the crisis escalates. I have been investigating. You can imagine my surprise to find both a wielder and a replica of Dawnbringer with a trace of a familiar spirit. I had suspicions immediately, but upon seeing elements of the wielder’s fighting style, I determined your involvement was likely. Now, I must determine how all of you are to be managed.”

Something shifted in the air as Keras narrowed his eyes— and, for just an instant, I felt as if there was a blade pressed against my neck. Gently, not cutting, just…present.

From the look of alarm on the faces of my friends, I guessed that they could feel the same.

“The members of this household are under my protection, Lute.”

If Lute felt the same sensation that we did, he gave no sign of alarm. Instead, he simply smiled. “Of course, brother. Thank you for stating that clearly. I will note this and consider them to fall within the established terms of our agreement.”

Sera spoke up. “I’m sorry, this is all terribly vague. Who is this father you’re talking about, and what is this agreement?”

“That information,” Lute replied, “is restricted.”

Keras turned to Sera. “In general terms, I have an agreement with Lute’s father that we will not interfere with each other’s families, students, and servants. For clarity, I would consider everyone in this household to be my student.”

That definitely was a stretch, but if Lute was taking this into consideration as a part of some kind of formal pact, I could see that Keras was stretching it to make sure we were under the protection of whatever prior agreement they had.

Lute frowned slightly at Keras’ answer. “You must remember that the details of our agreement are private.”

“Yes, yes. But people who are falling under our protection must have some general idea of the terms, obviously. I knowsome of your father’s servants must have been given significantly greater information than what I’ve just revealed.”

“…True.” Lute adjusted his glasses. “Very well. In any case, you were correct — our very meeting is nearing a violation of the pact. And your involvement with a wielder is definitely a concern.”

“Selys-Lyann is no longer Flowbreaker,” Keras said definitively. “And I was not even aware of their connection until recently, as I can no longer sense the swords.”

“Ah. The loss of your sensory abilities does explain that little problem. I take it that extends to not being able to sense my location as well. That does explain why you didn’t approach me when I entered your territory.” Lute nodded. “Very well. I will not petition Father in regards to any violation on your part — but tread carefully. You must know that there are boundaries that, once crossed, cannot be so easily dismissed.”

“I’m aware.” Keras folded his arms. “Similarly, you should stay away from my students.”

Lute considered that for a moment. “No.”

“No?” Keras bristled again, but I didn’t feel that cutting feeling itching against my neck again.

“I will not take hostile actions toward your students, but I do require their cooperation. I have entered into a dueling class as a team member for Corin Cadence and Patrick Wayland-Cadence. Beyond that, regardless of if Selys-Lyann is presently considered to be Flowbreaker, their relationship cannot be ignored. The sword’s fate must be observed.”

“So,” Sera interjected, “you’re responsible for monitoring the sacred swords? Does that make you a guardian, like Reika?”

“That information is restricted,” Lute replied to her, then after getting a hard look from Keras, “…but I can say that I am not what Reika was, precisely. My responsibilities are similar enough that a comparison is reasonable, however.

Each piece must be accounted for. My predecessors were lax in their responsibilities for too long.”

I turned that over in my mind. “Can you tell us what you are?”

Lute gave me a quizzical look. “I am one of Father’s tools.

What else could I possibly be?”

***The remainder of the meeting with Lute was just as infuriatingly vague. We found very few answers other than “that information is restricted”.

So, naturally, we waited for him to leave — peacefully, fortunately — and then bombarded poor Keras with questions.

“I’m just going to be direct,” Sera began, “what in the goddess’ name was that actually about?”

Keras grudgingly sat down at the kitchen table, putting his head in his hands. “Part of my past catching up to me in a very unfortunate way.”

“Okay, still super vague and useless. Go on.” It was a little snippier than I liked, but I didn’t disagree with her.

Keras took a moment, seemingly trying to gather his thoughts. “As I’m sure you’ve already gathered, Lute is related to the sacred swords, as is his father. His family is generally completely hands-off about events that don’t impact the swords directly. Some years ago, we made an agreement that required me to…stay out of their affairs, in exchange for them staying out of mine.”

“But why would you do that? Wasn’t Dawnbringer…” Patrick glanced down to Bright Reflection at his hip, then looked back to Keras. “You were in love with her, weren’t you?”

“It was…more complicated than that. I…I’m sure I had my reasons, I just don’t…”

“You don’t remember them.” I leaned against the table. “And you don’t want to remember them. That’s a little suspicious.  Couldn’t  you  be  under  some  sort  of  mindinfluencing magic to prevent you from getting your memories back and uncovering some kind of scheme?”

Sera blinked at me then gave me a look of something unfamiliar.

Was that…approval? Huh.

Apparently we had similar ideas of the situation for a change.

Keras, unfortunately, didn’t seem to agree. “No. The memory loss is related to one of my own techniques — it wasn’t caused by an external source. It would be more accurate to say that I’ve suppressed a large swath of my own memories deliberately.”

“Why would you do that?” Patrick gawked. “Your memories are a huge part of who you are!”

“Maybe I didn’t like who I was. Or who I might become.” Keras shook his head. “I don’t know, exactly. I suspect I suppressed them to prevent me from knowing what was going on with certain people, because if I knew…”

“You’d go track them down. You knew you couldn’t keep yourself out of their affairs without taking that step.” Sera sighed. “That’s hideously unhealthy, you know.”

“Do you have a better solution?” Keras demanded bitterly. “Do you know how hard it is to stay away from the people you love? To not even know if they’re alive or dead, or if they need your help?”

“I think we have some idea.” She leaned across the table. “You think we’re happy about sitting around while Tristan is rotting in the Serpent Spire?”

I looked at Sera in surprise. I hadn’t gotten any indication that she was actually invested in Tristan’s fate — she seemed more bitter about him than anything else. But… people are complicated, I suppose. And sometimes they can hold two conflicting views at once.

Or, of course, she was simply making the comparison because it was an easy way to manipulate Keras in theconversation. If so, it seemed to work, at least to some degree.

“That’s….” Keras’ face flipped through a complicated set of emotions. “…You’re right, that is similar. Maybe I’m being unfair…and maybe I was in a no-win situation, much like yours. Tristan would die if you managed to rescue him from the spire. Perhaps I knew that my involvement in what was going on would only make things worse. Or…”

“Maybe they’re dead and you couldn’t face that and go on,” Sera concluded. “If so, that’s not exactly a great way to deal with loss.”

“When you’ve lost as much as I have, sometimes forgetting is the only way to cope.”

“The only way?” I found myself asking. “Saying there’s only one way to handle anything doesn’t sound like Keras Selyrian to me.”

Keras was silent for a time. “…It doesn’t, does it?” His shoulders slumped. “That should be no surprise. Keras Selyrian is just a false name, after all.”

He seemed dejected by that, standing up from the table and turning to leave.

“Wait.” I interjected. He paused. I couldn’t necessarily make him feel better, but… “You’re more than just any name, given or chosen. You’re defined by your actions, past and present. You’ve protected us. You’ve saved my life. That’s worth something, isn’t it?”

“…It is.” He acknowledged quietly. “But I won’t be able to do that much longer.” The turned back to look toward me. “Take care of Lute when I’m gone. And I hope…he’ll take care of you, too.”

With that statement, Keras headed back up the stairs. “So…”  Sera  glanced  to  me  and  Patrick,  giving  us  aconspiratorial grin. “Who wants to help me convince Lute to sign a Summoner contract?”

***We chatted for just a bit longer about Lute and Keras after that. The general consensus was that Lute was, in all likelihood, either a dragon (which definitely actually still existed) like Reika from Keras’ stories, or possibly the physical manifestation of a sword in the form of a person.

Either of those options involved significant dangers if we continued to deal with him, but also a great deal of potential for gain. Sera’s angle of trying to get a Summoner contract made a degree of sense, especially if he had access to unusual magic types…and because it would potentially allow her a degree of control over him, which would make any interactions between us safer.

The latter option was much more interesting — it made me extremely curious what had ended up happening with Dawnbringer and if, perhaps, she had ended up in a similar form.

If that was the case…where was she?No doubt, Keras had asked himself that same question many times. It was heartbreaking that he’d seemingly erased that knowledge from his own mind.

I was very tempted to pursue a means of restoring Keras’ memories, but…it wasn’t really my place to do so. If he’d truly suppressed them himself, it wasn’t my decision to make if he was going to regain them or not.

…And I doubted he’d be able to resist the urge to regain them forever. When that happened….if Dawnbringer was alive…I didn’t envy anyone who stood in the way of their reunion.

Unfortunately, between Lute’s infuriating refusal to provide answers and Keras’ memory loss, that whole interaction had given us precious little information to work with. It was clear that Lute was going to keep watching me— or, Selys-Lyann, really — but I couldn’t know what that meant for his ultimate plans.

That was a little worrying.

In spite of Lute’s agreement to treat us as Keras’ students, and his surface-level mentions of their agreement, I didn’t get the impression he found the contract between Keras and his father particularly binding. If we were in the way of whatever his real plans were…well, I doubted he was anywhere near as powerful as Keras was, but there was no doubt that he was dangerous enough to be a concern.

Was I going to make more plans and countermeasures for if Lute eventually decided to backstab us?You bet I was.

But I had a pretty long list of seemingly impossible opponents to strategize for, and at the moment, I had one that I was almost overdue to meet with.

I groaned, wrapped up our conversation for the moment, and went to meet my next opponent.

