CHAPTER IX – THE CHANGE IN THE FLOW

Late that night, I was in the best mood I’d been in since… well, I couldn’t remember when. The upcoming duel was still hanging heavily in the back of my mind, but at that moment, I was...okay.

I couldn’t tell if the new exercises we’d learned in class were giving me any tangible benefits at this early stage, but if I could pick up a few new spells and expand my knowledge of how to use my attunements…well, options would present themselves.

I wasn’t quite ready to settle back into anything like a normal routine, but I did know there were a few conversations I’d been neglecting for far too long. The first on the list — a metaphorical list, not a physical one, in this case — was with Keras.

Talking about transcendence magic had brought back the memories of my time in the Transcendence Shrine and my encounter with the copy of him. The copy that had, with a single glance, identified that my sword was connected with Flowbreaker.

That had raised a number of questions. Had Keras been hiding that from me since the moment we met? Was he somehow angling to get his hands on the sword? He’d been collecting the Six Sacred Swords at one point, after all…but honestly, if he’d wanted to take the weapon, there wasn’t the slightest thing I could have done to stop him. I hadn’t been able to match an inferior copy of him in a straight fight and that copy hadn’t held a hundredth of the real Keras’ power.

So, what was his angle?And, more importantly, what were the implications that I needed to be aware of?I had other questions, too. Many questions. It was time to get some real answers.

He’d gone back downstairs after the sparring matches, retiring to his bedroom early as was his frequent habit these days…at least on nights Derek wasn’t dragging him out to whatever strange (and questionably legal) things they got up to when they were alone.

I knocked on his bedroom door. “Come in.”

I opened it, finding him sitting at a reading desk. A pile of well-loved books sat in a stack on one side, but at the moment, he appeared to be playing a Crowns game with no obvious opponent. I’d seen him doing that before, but I’d never understood it. Was he playing hypothetical games, trying to model a specific opponent? Experimenting with the efficacy of specific plays?I was curious, but I wasn’t sure how much I should pry, so I asked an open-ended question. “Sorry, am I interrupting something?”

He held a game piece in his hand tentatively for a moment. An unfamiliar piece, now that I thought about it. Foreign, maybe? I remembered that he’d mentioned having Crowns back at home.

“No.” Keras set the piece down on the board with surprising tenderness. “Just remembering.” He exhaled a breath. “What can I do for you?”

“I had some questions, if this is a good time?” I was trying to be sensitive, which I wasn’t very good at. Even I could tell that there was something amiss for Keras, though. Not just because of the somber tone of the story he’d been telling us on the train. That had brought his mood down somewhat, but if I wasn’t mistaken, the bigger problem was whatever had happened at the Tiger Spire. After that, his usual bluster had faded, overwhelmed by melancholy.

He nodded more toward the board than to me, then turned his chair to face me. “Sure. I have some time.”

He didn’t exactly invite me in, so I just leaned up against the doorway. If he got the signal, he didn’t say anything.

“So. In the Transcendence Shrine, I ran into that copy of you.”

“Looking for some pointers for the next time you have to fight a copy of me?”

“No, I wasn’t…wait, is that a real concern? Are theremore of them?”

He shrugged. “Maybe one or two that I haven’t cleaned up yet. And then there’s…well, he’s not exactly a copy. That’s complicated. But I was teasing. What are you really here for?”

I hadn’t noted any teasing in his tone. It was the same, near-monotone that he’d been defaulting to for weeks. Nevertheless, I did have other questions. “The shrine version of you noticed that my sword was connected with Flowbreaker immediately. Did you?”

Keras grunted. “I suspected. But if you’re asking if I knew with any certainty, no.”

“How is that? I mean, in your story…”

He shut his eyes. “I can’t sense the sacred swords anymore. Not like I used to. The copy…he was made in a different time. When I had Dawn, and when things were… different.”

“That makes some sense, but my understanding was that once you’d wielded Dawnbringer for a while, you could sense the swords, even when you didn’t have her. So…”

“Not anymore, Corin. Nothing good lasts forever.”

I paused at that line, rethinking my angle of questioning in a rare moment of actually paying attention. “…Are you okay?”

Keras winced. “It’s not that obvious, is it?” “It is.”

He raised a hand to cover his face for a moment, then sighed. “The answer is ‘no’, Corin. I’m not. Thank you for asking.”

“Is there anything I can do?”

He shifted in his seat, moving his hand away. “Not in the way that you’re thinking, but yes. We’ll get to that. I’ll answer your questions first. We might not get a better chance for you to ask them.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?”

“I’ll be leaving soon.” He sat up a little straighter. “Let’s leave that part of the conversation sheathed for now, though.”

I had a hard time not following that line of conversation, given how important it was, but I decided to defer to his preferences. “How’d you lose the ability? I didn’t know you could lose them, except…wait. One of the Children of the Tyrant?”

“No. It wasn’t that.” He shook his head. “They wouldn’t be able to steal that sort of thing from me. It was more of…a choice that was made. I know I said to ask questions, but I’d rather not go too deep into that particular line of conversation. Suffice to say that I wasn’t deliberately hiding any knowledge of Selys-Lyann’s nature from you. If I had known immediately, I would have told you.”

“Would it have changed anything about how you’d treated me if you’d known I had a part of Flowbreaker?”

He seemed to consider that. “Maybe, in an incidental sort of way. I’ve been trying to avoid…getting too involved with them again. It’s sort of funny. I spent so long looking, and now…I can’t get away from them, even if I try.”

It didn’t seem that funny to me. Neither of us laughed.

“I take it you don’t want to help me look for the other pieces of Flowbreaker, then?”

He shook his head. “It’s really best if I stay as far away from that sort of thing as possible. It may not be avoidable, but…I made certain promises. And no, I won’t speak of that in more detail. Not yet. Maybe not at all. There are certain things that others would want to keep private.”

“That’s fair. Let me ask you a more historical question, then. I’ve heard some stories about Selys-Lyann and Flowbreaker that are similar, but contradictory. Do you have any idea what really happened?”

“Ideas? Yes. The exact truth, no. All this was before my time, too…but I can give you my theories, based on what I’ve seen.”

“Please.” I bowed my head.

He seemed to finally realize I’d been standing in the doorway the whole time. “Please, have a seat.” He gestured at another chair at the other side of his table. One that would have been occupied by the other Crowns player, if there had been any.

Awkwardly, I sat down.

He spoke again once I was seated. “I wasn’t hiding knowledge about Selys-Lyann from you deliberately, but there are things I’ve been keeping from you and the others. There’s a simple reason for that: I know a number of things that would be considered forbidden knowledge.”

I shivered unconsciously at his emphasis on those final words. “Forbidden in the sense that the visages don’t allow it to be known?”

“Right. Wydd, in specific, draws certain hard lines on what people are allowed to teach. There are parts of the past that Wydd would prefer not to be explored, both in terms of old magic and historical events.”

“And you’re worried about getting in trouble for spreading that information?”

Keras gave the closest thing he’d shown to a laugh in a while. It was just a brief snort of disdain. “Please. You think I’m afraid of Wydd’s agents coming after me? They’ve already tried that more than once. No, Corin. I’m worried about what happens if they get their hands on any of you. I don’t know all of their methods, but they seem to have ways of knowing if people have even heard specific forms of forbidden  knowledge.  Some  kind  of  dominion  of  secretsspells, maybe. And when they find out…well, the kindest scenario is that they might just erase those memories. But there are far worse possibilities. You remember the story of the nation of Feria?”

“Sure. They tried to invade one of the spires, so Kerivas…” I blinked. “You’re saying that wasn’t why they were destroyed?”

He shook his head. “No. I don’t know, in their case. I can tell you two things. First, destroying an entire nation — taking every single civilian life — is never warranted. No military action on the part of Feria could possibly justify that. And two…the visages have done it more than once. There’s an entire ruined city on the western side of the Seventh Spire. And that one was ground to dust by the efforts of a single visage — because they possessed forbidden knowledge.”

I frowned. “That’s…look, I agree that destroying a nation isn’t a proportionate response to military action. I’d always taken that story as being, you know, apocryphal. Or not literal, at least. But even if that one is true…how can you know that Wydd destroyed a nation for knowing too much?”

Keras shrugged. “I was told by a reliable source. You’re right to question it, though. You should question everything, including what I tell you. Especially what I tell you. I didn’t do enough of that when I was younger, and now…well, let’s just say I have regrets. But even if you don’t trust those particular stories, your own scriptures are clear that there are things that Wydd forbids teaching about.”

“Okay, sure. And you’re just going to…tell me those things now? Why?”

“Several reasons. First off, you’ve already learned some things that could be considered forbidden, both from me and other sources, like Farren and Constantine. Second, you’re an Arbiter. You’re probably authorized to know some of this stuff. I don’t know how much, but some. And finally… things have changed. Both for me and for Valia.”

“What do you mean?” I frowned.

“I’m tired of games, secrets, and tricks. There’s a point where everyone loses their patience. I’m well past that.” Keras didn’t elaborate, but I was sure he was talking about the Tiger Spire. “And as for Valia…well, your chancellor has changed things. As of this week, it’s possible that every student at your university is in possession of forbidden knowledge.”

I felt a chill go down my spine as I processed the implications of that. “If that’s…wait…you don’t think…”

He shook his head. “I don’t think Wydd is going to smite Valia out of existence tomorrow, no. Feria wasn’t under the protection of a visage like Valia is…or was, at least. In Tenjin’s absence, I suspect Katashi would step in and prevent Valia from being obliterated. That’s…another complicated issue. Even if Katashi didn’t step in, however, I would…as long as I’m here. I’ve been avoiding direct conflicts with the visages on that scale, but if Wydd decided Valia needed to be destroyed?” A hint of his old resolve returned as his face’s expression hardened. “They’d quickly find out just how much I’ve been holding back.”

For an instant, I thought I felt something in the air, like a thousand swords were pressed against every weak spot on my body. Then, in a heartbeat, it faded.

Keras must have noticed the sudden panic in my expression. He closed his eyes, seeming to search for focus. “…Sorry. I don’t usually let that…” His jaw tightened for a moment, then he reopened his eyes. “I’ll be more careful. Now, as for the situation, I think there will be consequences for what Meltlake is doing…but probably not of the ‘obliterated nation’ variety. I’ll keep an eye out while I’m here, but it’ll be up to you and the others to help her if it happens after I’m gone. In the meantime, I’ll tell you what I can, if you’re willing to accept the risks. I honestly don’t know how much being an Arbiter will shield you from the consequences.”

I tried not look too eager. I’d been wanting to hear more about what Keras really knew for a long time. “Right. I accept the risks. All of the risks.”

That managed to draw a shadow of a smile from his face. “I figured. Just…if you’re going to tell the others about this, and I know you are, make sure you let them know about the risks first. They need to be able to make an informed decision, too.”

“Understood.” I nodded firmly. “Now, tell me everything.” “I don’t know everything, Corin. I’m still figuring out a lotof this myself. But I get your meaning, and I’ll tell you some things you’ll find important. First, your sword. Let’s start at the beginning.”

I took a deep breath. “The beginning of what?”

A hint of a smile crossed his lips. “The world. And,” he pointed upward, “the stars.”

He steepled his fingers. “This world was not the first. There were others before it — places like Rendalir, that I’ve already spoken of, and dozens of others that I’m less familiar with. The creation of a habitable world requires phenomenal powers, many of which are cosmologically opposed to one another. For this reason, most planets are created by four entities of colossal power working in tandem: worldmakers.”

I nodded. I’d heard the term “worldmakers” before, but not quite this level of detail.

“Along with the planet itself, the worldmakers created — or summoned, I’m not sure which — elemental beings to serve as gateways to other planes of existence. These beings would allow mortals in the newly-made worlds to do what the worldmakers themselves could do naturally: access other planes in order to conjure powerful effects. In a word, magic. Following this, or around the same time, the worldmakers began to populate the world. They created plants, animals, that sort of thing. My understanding is that they did this based on templates from other worlds thatalready existed, which is why things like humans here strongly resemble humans from Rendalir. The worldmakers followed existing blueprints.”

“That makes sense.” I nodded. “How does this relate to the sword?”

“I’m getting there. So, they created people. Humans, esharen, delaren, rethri, and others. The worldmakers looked after their creations directly at first, living among them for a time and teaching them, but refusing to govern. They allowed each species to select their own leaders, then blessed those leaders with symbols of approval in the form of powerful artifacts. Among these was a sword, granted to the first human king.”

“That was Selys-Lyann?”

“Not precisely. That weapon was called something like Theres’ien, the True Blade. There are other translations; in Liadran, we called it Theras’lien. You’d probably call it Theras-lyann in Valian, and you can start to see some of the origin there. Anyway, it was a gift from the worldmakers. Some say it was the first sword ever forged on this world.”

“That’s…pretty impressive. What about that sword you carry? Is that older?”

He shrugged. “Not sure. It might have been made before the planet itself, or maybe later, when Rendalir was threatened by the Sun Eater. Even I haven’t been able to find a clear timeline of events from back that far. Suffice to say that both weapons are ancient by our standards, but that isn’t really the important part. There were other weapons that predate them on other planets. Their significance isn’t really in age, or even that the worldmakers made them. Their specific capabilities make them significant.”

“And this…True Blade was powerful?”

“Absolutely. Stories from that time period are inconsistent, but there are a few overlapping factors that remain similar. The sword was a symbol of leadership, and itprotected the one that carried it. You can say it was primarily a defensive weapon; it could cover the wielder in near-indestructible armor. Some stories indicate that it also compelled people in proximity to listen to the wielder, or perhaps that it allowed the wielder to sense the truth. That last power is probably the reason for the name.”

The first part of that made sense to me: I’d found Selys- Lyann trying to protect me on multiple occasions. The latter parts were newer, but interesting if true. I didn’t particularly like the idea of compelling people to listen to me, but I had to admit that being able to discern the truth sounded extremely useful. I’d been under the impression that truth detection spells were impossible, but then again, a lot of things that Keras told me had once seemed that way. “So, what happened to it?”

“The sword was used by many people over thousands of years. Kings, generals, warriors. Eventually, it fell into the hands of a person — male or female is disputed — remembered only as ‘Therin’. I don’t think that was their actual name. Rather, I think it’s a derivation of the name of the sword. There was a point in history where it was common for people to take on titles based on the names of their weapons, and I think that’s what was going on.”

Something about that name made something stir in my mind…or maybe in my spirit. Unconsciously, I found myself glancing down at the sword at my side.

Was it…reacting, somehow? I felt like there was something at the edge of my senses. Not quite awake, not quite aware, but…there.

Waiting.

I didn’t say anything about it to Keras, nor did he seem to notice. He continued his tale. “Therin was a sword fighter, one of the two best of their time. A ‘sword saint’, if you want to get fancy. Therin was an adventurer that retired into some kind of military leadership, leading armies against the Xixian empire in their final days. In that long and storied life,Therin encountered a rival: someone who possessed equal talent and a weapon of equal power. An implacable swordsman with an insatiable desire for dominance.”

I felt a heartbeat, then. But it wasn’t my own.

Keras spoke the next words without inflection, but I could feel the distaste in his voice. “That man was called Vae’lien. You would know him as the Tyrant in Gold.”

My hand was on my sword, then. I didn’t know when it had gotten there. Ice was slowly creeping over my fingertips.

Keras showed no hint of concern or surprise. “You should know how that particular story ends — you’ve seen it, or some echo of a memory. They fought on numerous occasions, until Vae’lien’s greatest power — the ability to steal the strengths of others — gave him such strength that even Therin could not match it. In the end, their long rivalry ended in the way that such things often do — with one standing in triumph, and the other buried in the ground.”

He closed his eyes for a moment, then.

The ice climbed further up my arm. I didn’t feel it. I didn’t feel cold.

My heart beat faster.

Keras spoke again. “The True Blade was broken that day. I don’t know precisely what happened, but my best guess is that Vae’lien took one half of the sword, likely as a trophy. The other was left to be buried along with his rival, perhaps as a sign of respect. Some stories talk of Selys-Lyann being forged from the goddess’ tears, or something like it, since she was in love with the sword’s wielder. I don’t think that’s true. I do think, however, that she found some way to reforge the True Blade into a new weapon. Maybe alone, maybe with help. And that resulting weapon was Flowbreaker, the Sacred Sword of Ice.”

“And then…I suppose it was broken a second time, and reforged again, this time into Selys-Lyann?”

Keras nodded. “Many years later. Centuries, I think. Someone obtained the sword and used it to fight Mizuchi, then she snapped it.”

“When I saw my vision in the Transcendence Shrine, I think the sword involved was already Selys-Lyann, not Flowbreaker.”

Keras shrugged at that. “Best guess? It’s been broken several times now. Probably more than once by Mizuchi alone.”

“Is…it really that easy to break something forged by the makers of the world?”

“Not typically, but the replacement parts were probably inferior to the original. And beyond that, repairing the sword may have left lingering structural damage each time — the kind that could be exploited. Finally…I don’t think Mizuchi putting her full strength into anything would qualify as easy.”

I shuddered. “…True. That’s just…why would she do that? I mean, I can see destroying a sword if you’re doing it defensively, but…more than once? That sounds…”

“Like a vendetta.” Keras nodded. “I think it is, for her. If I had to guess, the ‘curse’ that Lars likes to talk about is just a consequence of Mizuchi hunting wielders of the sword.”

Well, that wasn’t concerning. Nope. Not at all.

“…Why would she do something like that?” I finally asked.

“I think there are a few possible reasons. One, if the goddess has an emotional attachment to the sword — and there’s every reason to think that she does — Mizuchi may think that killing the wielders or breaking the sword is somehow preventing Selys from having her heart broken again. Or, on the opposite side of that, maybe Mizuchi is jealous of the wielders, since they draw Selys’ gaze. I’ve known a number of monsters that are bitter that humans get preferential treatment. Mizuchi may be the same. But even if those two are good reasons, I think there’s a betterone: the scriptures. They say that the sacred swords are designed to defeat, or possibly kill, the god beasts. Mizuchi is Seiryu’s daughter. How would you feel about seeing a magic sword that’s specifically designed to kill your family?” “…That’s…a fair point.” The ice on my arm had stopped spreading,	and	it	was	starting	to	recede.	The	strange,foreign heartbeat was fading.

Why?If I had to guess, it was the mention of that first wielder of the True Blade, or perhaps Vae’lien, that had stirred a reaction from the sword.

I was tempted to test it further…but I didn’t think it was a good idea right at that moment. I had other things I needed to ask Keras that seemed more important, now that he was being open with his answers. “And you think it would be a mistake to try to repair the sword?”

“Not necessarily. It depends on what you mean by ‘repair’. If you think you’re going to remake the original Flowbreaker or True Blade, I don’t think that’s going to happen. There are factors that make that…implausible, let’s say. Improving what you have may be plausible, though. I can help with that just a little before I leave. And Derek can probably help with bonding the sword, if you’re still interested in doing that…but I really would advise against it.”

I nodded in understanding. “Okay. That’s a lot for me to think about in regards to the sword, thank you. Can I ask some other questions?”

“Sure, but I do have plans for the evening, so I’m not going to be able to talk for too much longer right now.”

“Going out with Derek again?He shook his head. “No. I have business with Elora tonight.”

I blinked. I knew that he’d met her, of course, since we’d both stayed at her manor for a while…but I hadn’t really seen them interacting much. “What sort of business?”

“Private stuff, I’m afraid. Not world-shattering secrets, just personal favors that she wouldn’t appreciate me talking about.”

“Understood. Can you…maybe give me a hint, at least?”

He rolled his eyes. “Well, I’ll tell you this much — it’s repayment for information she gave me. And that does lead me to a conversation topic I’d been planning to give you some time on, but since we’re already on the subject…it’s almost time to use the Jaden Box.”

I exhaled a breath.

I’d known this was coming, and I’d been dreading it. “It’s…not quite recharged yet.”

He nodded. “I know. And I also know that you’ve learned how to recharge it. You’ve been procrastinating on that deliberately because you haven’t figured out how to replicate it yet.”

It wasn’t phrased as a question, and he was right. I just… didn’t think he’d noticed. “I…uh, sorry.”

“Don’t be. I don’t blame you. I don’t think Wrynn would, either. But things have changed. Meltlake’s actions will draw attention. So, I’d appreciate it if you could start recharging that box as quickly as possible. If it’s any consolation, I’ll try to convince Wrynn to tell you a bit about it before we leave. Might help make it easier to replicate.”

“So…that’s it, then? You’re leaving after we summon Wrynn?”

He nodded. “That’s the plan. Obviously, it could change, but…Meltlake put new things in motion, and I’ve seen signs that I’ve been idle for too long.”

“What about your deal with Katashi to keep me safe? Are you abandoning that?” I tried not to sound too upset or accusatory with the question.

“No.” Keras shook his head. “It’s been months. Not only have I met any reasonable conditions for watching over you during that time, I don’t think he ever intended to help me. I think this agreement was largely to keep me out of the waywhile other things played out. I’ve suspected that for months, but recent events have made it clearer. I might have left sooner, but the chance to summon Wrynn has been worth waiting for.”

From a practical standpoint, I could understand his reasoning, but…there was a part of me that couldn’t help but be disappointed.

I thought I was the reason he was staying, after all. Not just the box.

…And I wasn’t happy that he was leaving. Not just because I was infinitely safer from people like Saffron and Mizuchi while he was around, but…He’d been willing to stand up to my father.

No adult had done that for me when I was young.

It wasn’t strictly due to a lack of knowledge. I’d been injured badly enough during some of our “training” that he’d been forced to get me magical healing. And even with that healing, I had permanent scars.

My uncle had known, too. He’d seen it himself. He’d encouraged it.

And…Cecily’s family.

I won’t get into all that, but there was a time when Magnus had more than one student, and…well, Cecily’s parents pulled her out of that training.

They didn’t do a thing for me.

So, when Keras had offered to stand in for me during that duel…There was a part of me that felt like, in spite of the awfulness of the situation as a whole…Someone had finally noticed. Someone had finally tried to help.

There was finally someone in my life that…actually was willing to protect me. Someone strong enough that he could protect me, without question, if I just asked.

And now he was going away.

I didn’t say that, of course. I couldn’t say that. Not just out of embarrassment, although that may have been a factor. It wasn’t fair. I couldn’t let myself push Keras into staying out of some kind of guilt.

He was the type of person that couldn’t say “no” when someone in trouble asked for help.

And that was exactly why I needed to let him leave.

As long as he was there…there would always be the temptation to ask him to step in and save me. From that duel, from Saffron, from Mizuchi, from…everything, really.

I couldn’t rely on Keras Selyrian to solve my problems for me forever.

But for a little while…for just a little while…it had been nice to think that I could.

I cleared my thoughts as best I could, giving him a false smile. “I’ll help charge the Jaden Box as soon as I can.”

“Thanks, Corin.” He gave me a hint of a smile in return, just as fake as my own. “You won’t regret it.”

Liar, I thought.

But he had told me not to trust anyone. Perhaps that was the last of his lessons that I had refused to learn.

