CHAPTER XXIII – GIFTS

A week later, I tossed a sphere of blistering light at Patrick.

“Bright Reflection!”

Patrick slammed the flat of his gleaming sword into the sphere, blasting it back toward me. The sword barely dimmed. We’d successfully upgraded the capacity runes on the sword during the week, giving it more mana to work with — and I fully intended to put the sword’s maximum capabilities to the test.

“Shivering Shroud!”

My aura flared with brilliant frost, sending the sphere bouncing right back at him.

We continued batting the ball back and forth until Bright Reflection’s blade finally dimmed just slightly, at which point he dodged and let the ball fly off the roof.

…There probably wasn’t anything in that direction. It was fine.

I wiped the sweat off my forehead. “I think we’re getting better at this.”

“Much better. What’s the other thing you wanted to test today?”

“Different kind of ball game.” I reached into my pouch, pulling something out. “Catch.”

I hurled a cylinder at Patrick with sudden speed — and, as expected, he caught it on instinct.

Nothing happened.

Patrick startled, took a step back, then raised an eyebrow at the palm-sized cylinder in his hands. Runes were etched into the surface, but inactive. “…Am I supposed to know what this is?”

I sighed. “No. Ugh. Still not calibrated right, I guess.” I shook my head. “I’ve been trying to figure out the right values for impact activation on enchantments. If I make thevalues too low, it’ll activate just from shuffling around while I walk. If the value is too high, though, it won’t turn on at all.”

“…What exactly was supposed to happen when I caught this?” Patrick looked at the cylinder with new suspicion.

I laughed. “It just lights up. It’s a test case, after all.”

Patrick looked more than a little relieved at that. Did he… not trust me to make items that were safe to test?…That was probably fair, even if it hurt a little.

“Got it. Okay, do you need to tweak the numbers and try again?”

I nodded. “Yeah, toss it back to me. Fortunately, this is using a dynamic activation rune, so I can just modify the sub-glyphs rather than re-etching the whole thing.”

Patrick tossed the cylinder to me. I caught it, then began to work.

“…Couldn’t you just find the values in a book?”

I shook my head. “No. Well, I mean, yes, probably? But I’m trying to find something pretty specific — toss and catch activation values, or approximately similar ones. Haven’t found those in a book yet. Most of the impact values are for things like ‘expected impact force for sword hitting armor’ and ‘expected force for battering ram’. I’m sure someone has recorded standardized values for throwing something, but tracking it down would take more time than just measuring it myself.”

“…Couldn’t Researcher find it, like, instantly?”

I shrugged a shoulder at that. “…Maybe. But that would require asking her.”

“Is there a problem with that?” Patrick blinked. I tweaked more numbers.

“Oh, no, not in the technical sense. I just…bother Researcher for things constantly. And that’s pretty much the only reason I ever talk to her, so I feel weird asking for more if I don’t have to.”

“Isn’t answering questions like, I don’t know, half of her purpose for existence?”

“…I guess.” I set the cylinder down. “Maybe I’m still thinking of her in too human of terms. She is a knowledge elemental and she always seems happy to look things up for me. I just…it feels awkward. And I’m not big on talking to people even at the best of times. I’m kind of burned out. I don’t mind a little focused practice like this, but that’s about my tolerance level.”

“I, uh…” Patrick stammered. “That’s…”

I wasn’t great with people, but even I could sense something amiss from his stuttering. I finished modifying the cylinder, then looked up. “Is something wrong?”

“Not wrong, exactly, it’s just, uh, awkward timing. You might want to—”

That was when the door to the rooftop burst open and half a dozen people charged us. I reached for my sword before I realized they were just my friends, and the conspicuous items they were carrying were…balloons.

Oh, no.

I staggered toward the edge of the rooftop as the words rang out—“Happy Name Day!”

***I wasn’t big on birthdays.

For too many years, they’d happened in isolation from anyone or anything that could make it a positive experience. Even prior to the years alone my birthday celebrations tended to come with social expectations and responsibilities that I didn’t care for. That’s not to say that I never had a birthday that I enjoyed, but the last several years were hard.

So, I admit there was more than a bit of trepidation when I heard those words ring out through the air.

…And more than a bit of confusion, too.

Did I lose track of time that badly? No, that doesn’t make sense. The semester isn’t over yet, and…Fortunately, Sera, at least, understood me better than I sometimes realized.

“No, it isn’t your birthday. I know, that’s still a month and change off. But, as your mother was keen to repeat on a number of occasions, she’d picked out your name well before your birth — specifically, on the day of the spring rain festival, which happens to be today.”

I raised an eyebrow. “That’s…probably true, but I’ve never celebrated it that way before. I take it you have some kind of elaborate scheme in mind for why we’re doing this now?”

“Obviously, but I’ll let you sort that out later. I know you’re not big on ostentatious celebrations. So, balloons aside, we’ll dispense with most of the traditions and move straight to something I think even you would enjoy. Would you like gifts first or dessert?”

I hesitated for a moment, considering. Local birthday desserts tended to be something iced — iced cream, for example, or shaved ice cones. Many locals had also adopted foreign practices of baking cakes, large cookies, or in some cases, flatcakes. I wasn’t sure on the origins of any of those, but I was pretty sure our iced cream related celebrations had something to do with Selys’ association with the element.

“…What’s for dessert?”

“Cinnegar cake with hot and cold dipping sauces,” Derek said with a smile. His smile simultaneously seemed to say, “I made this and you are going to eat it.”

This may have been mildly threatening in some contexts, but I really did like cinnegar cake. “…Let’s do that.”

There was a round of cheers, then we headed down and ate. I kept mostly quiet, grateful that people let me focus on the food, rather than pushing me into any kind of obligatory socialization. I just wasn’t in the right head space for it.

The cake was good. I especially enjoyed the molten chocolate sauce, which was a rare and unexpected treat.

After that, I’d settled into the idea of a Name Day and the related social obligations to brace myself enough for gifts. I stayed at the dinner table, allowing others to gather their gifts and bring them to me. Fortunately for my paranoia, most of the gifts were fairly straightforward and unwrapped. “Since I cooked, I’m going first.” Derek approached andslid an envelope across the table to me. “It’s money.” Truly, the most personal of gifts.

…But honestly, it was probably one of the best things anyone could have gotten me. I was always running short on finances for buying supplies and Derek knew that. He paid for things that were for the house, of course, and helped me buy some of the materials for gifts for others.

Having a little bit of money — or, as I saw from the numbers on the bank note inside, a significant bit of money— was going to be tremendously helpful for my work.

I accepted the envelope gratefully. “Thank you. This is going to be very useful.”

He offered me a nod. “Figured as much. Happy Name Day.”

With the nicety out of the way, he went back to the kitchen, presumably working on some other dish.

By some unspoken agreement, Mara went next. “Been thinkin’ about what to get you for a while. Can’t say you’re easy to buy for, since you’re always makin’ stuff yourself, and you mostly think about practical stuff. Don’t give yourself enough time to just unwind. Can’t force you to do that, but I figured I’d could give you a way to both relax while you work, and maybe a little outside of it, too.” She slid a hand-sized black box across the table. I stared at it for a moment in confusion, then noted the latch in the center and flipped it open to see a wide variety of runes inside, as well as several buttons.

Sound runes, for the most part. And some that are…hm, memory. Some kind of storage for sound, like—oh!“An enchanted music box?” I blinked. “I’ve seen a few of these before, but I’ve never owned one.”

“You mentioned earlier in the year that you enjoyed violin music, so…I figured you might enjoy hearing some without having to go to a concert hall.”

I picked up the box, smiling softly, and pressed the first button.

Then, as the melodious sounds rang out from the box, I simply closed my eyes and listened.

…I must have done that for a little too long.

“Venaya to Corin,” Sera interrupted. “You’ve still got a line.”

My eyes opened hesitantly. I blushed, then tapped another button to stop the sound. “I…sorry.”

“You can tell Mara you like her gift,” Sera nudged.

“Oh! Right. I’m, uh, sorry. And thanks? It’s a great gift.” “You know it.” Mara grinned. “And you’re welcome.”

I stared at the box for another moment, not sure where to put it.

Should I put it in the Jaden Box? A box in a box seems awkward, but technically possible. Why does it even have a latch in the center? It could just be a cube, it doesn’t need a crease. Is it just because it’s supposed to look like an older style of music box? Maybe if I…“You good for another gift?” Keras sat down across from me.

“Oh, sure. Sorry!”

He gave me a curt nod. “First off, I owe you an apology.” “…An apology?” I raised an eyebrow.

“I gave Mara a gift for her birthday earlier in the year, but since we were in the spire, it might not have come through why I was giving something valuable to one of my students and not the other. So, I want you to know that Iwasn’t trying to play favorites. I was just waiting for the right time.”

“I…oh. I hadn’t considered…” I frowned. “I missed Mara’s birthday?” I turned to her in horror. “I’m so sorry! I’m really bad at this, and—”

She held up a hand. “Relax, I was inside the Tiger Spire for it, and I didn’t tell you about it. You didn’t miss any signals.”

I exhaled a sigh of relief.

Patrick leaned closer from his seat and whispered to me, “But you are going to miss Sera’s birthday if you don’t get something started within the next month or so.”

My eyes widened. He was absolutely right. I…had work to do.

I tried to shake that panic off and turned back to Keras. “Sorry, I’m, uh…I wasn’t worried about you playing favorites or anything. You’ve helped me build several things.”

“True, but that’s not the same as a personal gift, and I wanted you to know that you deserve something special. And, in spite of my reservations, you seem to be following my path in one particular way — you’ve been amassing quite the collection of swords.”

He wasn’t wrong. I’d handed off my transference sword, but I still had Selys-Lyann, my void sword, and my recently- forged dueling sword and dagger. That was enough to cover most situations, but I certainly wasn’t going to turn down one of Keras’ old weapons if he still had one.

I felt a bit of excitement when I thought about the possibility of the Pale Crescent — but what he handed me was even more valuable with my personal set of skills and interests.

I accepted the strip of leather, turning it over in my hand and noting the time-worn material with several pieces of sword-shaped metal attached, each coated with elaborate runic script. “This is…”

“It’s a bit torn up, but it still works. My Belt of Swords.

Each symbol can store a single sword inside.”

“This was a personal gift from someone. Are you sure…?” He nodded firmly. “That part of my life is over. But for you,”  he  gestured  toward  Selys-Lyann,  “it  may  just  bebeginning.”

I inspected the six remaining symbols on the belt and realized that all of the remaining ones were replicas to the Six Sacred Swords. The others had either been removed or destroyed.

“…Are you sure?”

“You already have a piece of Flowbreaker. I wish I’d realized that sooner. I’m not going to tell you to collect the swords — that wouldn’t work at this point for any number of reasons — but you’ve made extra dimensional spaces a major part of your research. Even if you don’t like the belt itself, I figured you could use it as a part of your research process."

“…I do like the belt.” I found myself clutching it close against my chest. “I…thank you. Something like this… something you used yourself…that means a lot to me.”

As a member of a duelist family, I’d grown up with the expectation of inheriting certain heirlooms from previous generations. My father wielded Alaric Cadence’s cane, a potent magical weapon that my great-grandfather had carried during the Six Years War. He wore his father’s dueling tunic, which was enchanted to rapidly regenerate damage to the wearer’s shroud. For difficult battles, he wore his mother’s necklace, which provided powerful defense against physical attacks for a few moments when activated. The glove he wore on his right hand was an heirloom of House Lyran, passed to him by my mother during their wedding ceremony, that helped conduct magical energy more rapidly through it.

As a child, I learned the stories about each of them with awe. I’d expected that Tristan would inherit the cane, butthat perhaps if I performed well enough, Father would deign to pass one of the lesser items off to me.

Now…Well, I somehow didn’t think I’d be handed off the family relics. And even if I was, they wouldn’t mean the same thing they would have to a wide-eyed child.

But I sat across from someone who had taught me, not with anger and resentment, but with patience and an easy smile. The former wielder of Dawnbringer, who had matched a visage in a fight after two weeks of starvation in a jail cell.

And he was giving me something he’d been given by two of the people closest to him in the world.

“I…I’ll cherish this. Thank you.”

“Take better care of those swords than I did.” He gave me a sad smile, then nodded and moved away.

I didn’t have much time to wonder about his meaning before Patrick plopped down across from me. “Kind of feel awkward now, since my gift is, uh, sort of the same core idea.”

“…A belt?Patrick laughed. “Not quite that redundant, fortunately.” He handed me a bag.

I opened it to look for the gift inside…and realized that I was staring into a void.

I gawked, then closed the bag. “Your dimensional bag.

This is too valuable — and you just got it. Are you sure?” “Why do you think I got it in the first place?” Patrickgrinned. “I knew you’d have to be giving up the Jaden Box soon, and that you’d be working on trying to figure out a replacement. This isn’t perfect, but…”

“No, it is perfect. And it’s not redundant with the Belt of Swords — they’re complimentary. You don’t want to pull a sword out of a bag, it’s too awkward. Similarly, the belt won’t work for storing most other objects. They’re both extremely helpful. And beyond that, they’re going to have different types of runes, with some overlap, so…”

“You can study them both.” Patrick smiled. “I’m glad.” “Thank you. Thank you all.” I bowed my head. “These areall very thoughtful gifts."

Sera nudged Patrick and then took his place across from me. “Aren’t you forgetting someone?”

“Oh. I, uh, sorry.” I winced.

“Corin, it’s your Name Day. Don’t apologize. You’re fine. I just want you to know that I was saving the best gift for last. Meaning mine, of course.”

It was going to be hard to top the last couple, but I wasn’t going to say that. “Right. Of course.”

“Oh, you sound skeptical now, but wait for a moment.” She grinned, then disappeared up the stairs…and returned with a gigantic stack of documents.

Then she slammed them down on the table in front of me. “Behold, your greatest prize!”

I raised a skeptical eyebrow at the gigantic document stack. Then, tentatively, I took a look at the first page.

And my eyes widened.

These are…I shifted to the next page, then the next, scanning through them, then looked up at Sera in shock.

“This is what I was missing for making the null-contract attunement. How…where…”

“I figured out the obvious gap in your studies of contracts was fairly simple — the sub-glyphs aren’t all located on the attunement. The other half — well, much less than half, only a fraction, really — are on compatible monsters, stored in an attunement-analogous function container attached to one of their Dianis points.”

It sounded so obvious that I mentally kicked myself for not considering it sooner. There obviously had to be something to designate a valid target for a contract — Sera had already explained that her contracts only worked with certain types of monsters. She’d had to figure out how to do something  special  to  make  her  contract  with  theTranscendence Gateway Crystal. Presumably, that was a spell that created a temporary or permanent marker on the target that served the same function as these sub-glyphs, allowing for a valid contract to be made.

“…How’d you get all this, though? The divinatory?”

She shook her head. “No, although Researcher was integral to making it possible. I used our contract to learn the spell for analyzing sub-glyphs, then looked at Vanniv and hand-transcribed the sub-glyphs. I barely got it done in time.”

“This is dozens of pages. Hand-transcribing that must have…”

“Yeah, it took a while.” She grinned. “But it was worth it to see the look of surprise on your face when you figured out what I’d done.”

“I…thank you. This means more than you realize. I still have to actually read it, but if it contains everything I needed, then…I can finally make those null-contract items. And with those…”

“You can potentially help yourself grow faster, like a Summoner.”

I nodded. “…Myself or anyone else. In theory.” I gave her a soft smile. “That’s why you did this early. You knew I’d want these notes as soon as physically possible. You were right, of course. Thank you, Sera.”

“Say that last part again? Before the ‘Thank you, Sera.’” I rolled my eyes. “…You were right, of course.”

“Ah, those wonderful words make all this worth it.” She smiled. “You’re welcome. Now, I’m off for more cake. You want some?”

“…That sounds great.”

She stepped away, but I kept focusing on the pages.

Sera hadn’t just given me something of value with that gift.

She’d given something important up.

By giving me the means to create null-contract items, she’d given me the tools necessary to build something that emulated the greatest advantage she had over me — her attunement’s natural growth speed.

Knowing Sera’s natural competitiveness, as well as the efforts that our father had made to put us against each other…It must have been difficult for her, especially given her insecurities after losing so much of her progress.

She hadn’t needed to give this to me. She certainly hadn’t needed to do it before she’d caught up to my mana level or exceeded it. She could have chosen to keep the secret to herself for a while, or even indefinitely — I wouldn’t have blamed her in the slightest.

But Sera had chosen to trust me. To share with me. And in that, she’d proven her boasting right.

Sera had given me the best gift after all.

