CHAPTER XXIV – OVERWHELMINGLY DARK

I enjoyed the rest of my Name Day celebration, but kept it brief, both because I was easily overwhelmed by social pressure and because I wanted to go back to my room to study the notes that Sera had given me.

I began working on my null-contract item experiments that night. I couldn’t wait. I didn’t finish anything that evening, but I made excellent progress.

Over the next few days, I started working on a gift for Sera. Her own birthday was still months off, but if I didn’t start early, I’d probably forget about it entirely. I was silently grateful to Patrick for reminding me that birthdays were a thing, otherwise I might not have remembered to make one at all.

I couldn’t possibly offer anything as meaningful as what Sera had gotten me, but I made sure to make a solid effort regardless.

In the end, I fashioned her something simple, but useful— a massively upgraded version of the summon-enhancing bracers I’d crafted for her in the first year. With my greatly improved mana capacity and sets of batteries, I was able to make a Sunstone-level version, which offered vastly greater utility than her original bracers.

Then, I just gave it to her early. I didn’t bother making up a convenient excuse like she had with the Name Day celebration. I just told her, “I’m giving you your gift early, since it’ll be useful now.”

“Good call. Thanks, Corin. I appreciate it, and all the other things you’ve been making for us. Don’t think we haven’t noticed how much effort you put into making the whole team stronger.”

I was mildly embarrassed by that, so I retreated immediately with a “no problem” and a hand wave. Seraseemed grateful for the gift, but I wished I’d made something a little more personal.

Maybe for the next year.

I took solace in the calm in the days that followed. The soft sound of violin music helped me work.

In the next week, I began my next experiment. It was still too soon to try the null-attunement item I’d been working on, but I had something else that was ready for a test run.

***I exhaled a deep breath — but not just because of my usual stress. Transference mana flooded out of my lungs and into the surrounding air.

That should be enough.

I glanced to Sera. “Are you sure this is a good idea? Shouldn’t I start with, I don’t know, something that doesn’t have any chance of causing harm to anyone else when I—”

“Just cast the spell, Corin.”

Another deep breath. This one was because I was anxious.

Then, I focused on the mana around me and completed the spell.

“Mass Haste!”

I felt the familiar tingle of transference mana rushing through me as the spell completed — and saw Sera stagger as if struck. I raised a hand in worry, but she just shook her head…much more quickly than normal.

“J…just acclimating. You told me how strange Haste felt without any kind of perception spell, but, uh, wow.” She raised a hand, presumably to look at it, and very nearly smacked herself in the face. “That’s…going to take some getting used to.”

“Yeah, no kidding. You’re…sure you’re okay?”

She nodded, then winced. “As long as I don’t give myself whiplash by trying to swing my neck too quickly. Ugh. It’s a miracle you haven’t killed yourself with this spell yet.”

I snorted, but couldn’t quite relax. It was the first time I’d managed to cast a spell using exhalation-based mana projection — which was a fancy way of saying “casting spells like I had a Lung Mark”.

I still wasn’t quite doing it “correctly”, in that I’d projected my mana through intentional exhalations, rather than simply speaking an incantation. That style wasn’t unheard of, but it was…well, it was more of a remedial training exercise for lung marked, since it was generally considered much smoother to go through a pre-set incantation in battle and train the body to exhale mana at a specific rate than it was to stand around taking deliberate breaths. Non-verbal exhalations were still used in niche situations — like when the caster couldn’t or shouldn’t speak — but it wasn’t the standard practice.

I was hoping to figure out how to use the incantation style properly over the next few weeks, but for the moment…this was good progress. I’d cast the Mass Haste spell safely…well, at least as long as Sera didn’t try to walk down any stairs.

Mass Haste was exactly what it sounded like — an area- of-effect version of the standard Haste spell. The Sunstone- level Haste itself was much more costly in mana than my old Quartz and Carnelian-level Haste spells, but my mana pool had grown enough to make that more feasible to use. Mass Haste was a serious stretch, since it was designed for an entire group of people. I was using the minimal possible amount of mana to make it work and even that nearly drained my entire Arbiter supply in a single spell.

…Still, if I could get it to work in a combat situation, it could be a game charger.

The critical part, aside from learning an entire new casting style, was getting my friends to acclimate to the use of Haste the way that I had. I’d have to start training them with lower-level Haste spells first…but in order to do that, I’d have to figure out the spell formulae for a lower level ofMass Haste, since the book version was Sunstone-level. That was absolutely doable — I could just take the Sunstone-level of Mass Haste and the Quartz-Level Haste and extrapolate the differences — but experimenting with making a “new” spell variant wasn’t the right way to test an entirely different casting style.

I’d get to it eventually.

“Okay, you want to try to take a spin around the house?” I asked Sera.

“Sure, if I can make it more than three steps without vomiting.”

She did make it more than three steps — Almost five, in fact.

After that, we called Mass Haste practice over for the day.

***It was hours later that I sat down in the empty chair on the opposite side of a Crowns board. I felt my shoulders tighten as I said the words I’d been dreading for months. “… The box is charged.”

Keras looked up from his game. As usual, he had been playing alone…or, at least, seemingly alone. His eyes snapped into focus on my face. “You’re certain?”

I nodded. “I’ve been studying it closely and recharging it as safely as possible. It’s reached a point where the box won’t accept more mana. I can’t guarantee it wasn’t damaged during the recharging process, though.”

I don’t even know why I said that last part.

…No, I do. If I’m being honest, I think there’s a part of me that was hoping that any hint that the box might be damaged would persuade Keras not to use it. Not to take it away.

He’d been kind to me. The box had never belonged to me. But there was still a part of me that, in spite of knowing how awful it was, didn’t want to give the box up. I’d studied it — and other examples of similar items — as closely as Icould. I’d poured over the notes from others studying it at the Divinatory, too, and everything that Researcher could tell me. Even with all that, I was still far from being able to properly replicate it. Perhaps I’d reach the point where I could emulate the functions to a minimal degree soon, but it would probably be years before I could duplicate the summoning functionality, even with help.

“If it fails, it fails.” Keras glanced back down to the Crowns board, frowned, then picked up a single piece — a paladin — and took it off the table. “I’ll be back soon. I need to send a message to someone. Be ready.”

“…Ready? We’re doing this right now?”

Keras nodded. “We’ve waited more than long enough. We’ll begin as soon as the last person we need arrives. I doubt she’ll keep us waiting long.”

Who is he talking about?Before I could even open my mouth, Keras was gone in a blur of movement.

I didn’t have to ponder long. It was only a few minutes later that we heard a knock at the door. Derek and Keras strode down the stairs together. Derek had a broad grin on his face. Keras looked…nervous, maybe? It was a strange expression to see on his face. I wasn’t used to seeing any kind of anxiety coming from him.

I didn’t like it.

What if I broke the box? Is it going to hurt Wrynn Jaden when we try to summon her? What if it opens some kind of dimensional rift? What if—Keras flickered down to the front door and opened it.

The person standing on the other side wasn’t on the list of people I’d considered, but in retrospect, she should have been obvious.

Elora Theas wore a resplendent red dress, like she was planning to go to some kind of fancy ball. Her hair was blonde again, but loose, rather than styled — she probably hadn’t had time to do anything extensive with it. Keras musthave messaged her only minutes before, after all. She’d still managed to throw on some jewelry, however, including a pair of rings that I thought resembled the one that she’d expended to cast a Sapphire-level spell to attack Saffron.

…She’s loaded for a fight. Or, at a minimum, to impress.

Keras’ tension seemed to fade a little bit when he saw her, which was almost as strange as the anxiety itself had been.

How do they even know each other? Oh, right, we stayed at Elora’s place after the fight with Saffron for a bit. Still, are they close somehow?Things clicked a little bit more when Keras finally said his greeting. “Hey. Glad you could make it, Baby Ba—”

She lifted a finger to his lips. “I told you to never call me that in public.”

Keras’ snorted and stepped back from her finger. “Pfft. We’re not in public, exactly, and I think the kids have all figured it out by now.”

Elora folded her arms. “Nevertheless, restrain yourself,old man.”

Keras rolled his eyes. “Come on in.”

“I think I should be the one greeting guests, Keras.” Derek finally made it to the doorway, having chosen to walk casually, rather than speeding along. “I am still the lord of this manor, you know.”

“Are you, now?” Elora glanced at him. “So easy to forget in such august company. And considering who our next guest is going to be…maybe you should consider conceding the territory?”

“It’s not too late for me to close the door, Elora.” “I can teleport.”

“I have anti-teleportation wards.” “I can bypass—”

Keras stepped between them. “Can we delay the lover’s quarrel in favor of doing something we’ve all been waiting for?”

Derek wrinkled his nose. “Provided my guest conducts herself reasonably, absolutely.” He pulled the door open a little wider, then gestured for Elora to come inside.

“I will, of course, be on my best behavior.” She gave Derek a mischievous grin, then made a show of taking two slow steps across the house’s threshold. “Now, if you’ll lead me to the containment room, I’d like to verify our preparations.”

Elora extended an arm. Derek gave Keras a look, then slipped his arm into Elora’s and led her up the stairs.

That was…strange. Why is Elora even here? Is it because Derek wanted someone with summoning experience to be here to contain any possible failures from the box? That would make sense, but…Oh. The box. Right.

Elora is the one who put it in the Divinatory, years ago. Keras must have talked to her about that at some point and figured out why she’d done that. Of course he did…he’s been eager for any information about his friends. If she got the box, she’d probably met Wrynn. And if she’s here for the summoning, that means they have enough information to mean it’s plausible.

I should have asked Elora about all this ages ago.

I knew why I hadn’t, of course. If I had talked to her about the box, she might have taken it away from me at any time. It just hadn’t really occurred to me that Keras might have checked in with her.

As Derek and Elora made their way upstairs, Keras lifted a fist to his lips to stifle a laugh, then turned to me. “… They’re adorable, aren’t they?”

“I have no idea what just happened.”

“Flirting, Corin. That was flirting. The dominance play is a bit of their dynamic. Elora tries to push him down, so he has to assert himself in order to—”

“We can hear you!” Derek yelled from the stairway.

“I know.” Keras said more quietly. “Anyway, as I said, adorable. Let’s go catch up to them.”

I was reminded once again that I had no idea how romance worked for other people, but I tried to push that out of my mind. Keras had been right earlier — this was exciting. We had been waiting for a long time.

I was nervous, jittery, and hated every moment of that… but I was excited.

I was ready to meet a legend.

***…The others weren’t, however.

“Unacceptable.” Elora shook her head as she exited the “containment room” — a perpetually locked room with a “Don’t Enter” sign on it that I hadn’t ever explored. She closed the door behind her. “That’s less a pool and more of a bathtub. She’ll be so cramped! Honestly, Derek, where have your standards gone?”

“If you mean my romantic standards, obviously I’ve had to lower them significantly for you, but—”

I ignored them and leaned toward Keras to whisper. “… What’s in that room?”

“A stasis pool.” He grimaced. “Without going into too much detail, Wrynn may be currently in a form of stasis. The safest way to summon her would be to ensure there’s a way to put her back into stasis immediately if necessary.”

I frowned. Keras had mentioned that Wrynn utilized some kind of “stasis chamber” during his stories, but he hadn’t gone into a lot of detail. “Is she unhealthy?”

“No. I mean, well, yes, I suppose, but that isn’t the problem. It’s more that she’s incredibly dangerous to everyone else if she doesn’t go into stasis for long periods of time. I’m not sure how much I should share about that, but—”

“Oh, don’t be such a cryptic old man.” Elora approached, then turned to me. “Miss Jaden has a worldmaker’s seal on her body. It’s continuously trying to steal her body. She hasa number of techniques to suppress it, but the most effective is to put herself in stasis for years or decades at a time, which reduces the worldmaker’s influence.” She turned back to Keras. “There, that wasn’t so hard, now was it?”

Keras sighed. “I don’t think she’s going to be happy about us spreading that around.”

“Oh, certainly not. But she’d also be quite unhappy if you summoned her and she went on a murderous rampage, yes? Anyone involved deserves to know the risks.”

“Wait, wait, back up. A worldmaker? Like, literally one of the gods that created our planet?”

Keras nodded. “Or one of the other planets. I think this one is one of ours, but she didn’t ever actually give me a name. I’ve done some research, and I have educated guesses, but nothing certain.”

“…Right.” I exhaled deeply. “Okay. Who do you suspect it is?”

“Worldmaker Aetor, the Maker of Monsters.” For a moment, we all went silent.

“…Not bad,” Elora muttered. “I hadn’t heard that part.”

I glanced at her, then back to Keras. “…Is that what it sounds like?”

He nodded. “Exactly what the name implies. Aetor is the original creator of the creatures we’d consider to be monster species. His children are called the ‘Origin Beasts’, and represent the original heritage of nearly every monster on this planet.”

“But not everywhere?” Derek asked.

Keras shook his head. “No, there are other planets that predated this one, and they had their own creators of monster species. And there are also extraplanar creatures, like elementals and such, that aren’t tied to any worldmaker. But if you’re looking for the god responsible for the monsters in the Unclaimed Lands, or the Buried, or that sort of thing — that’s Aetor.”

“…And we’re seriously considering a plan that could bring him back into this world?” I gave Keras a hard look. “Couldn’t he immediately attack us if he’s in control of her body?”

“That’s possible. Wrynn was always worried about that. Apparently, this worldmaker was involved in some kind of massive war with other worldmakers, then sealed away through the combined efforts of their own divine children and mortal armies. The seal is passed on from generation to generation, distributed across multiple people and objects to prevent there from being a single point of failure.”

“Meaning that it’s only a piece of a Worldmaker tied to her, then?” Derek asked.

“My understanding is that she’s connected to the whole worldmaker, but since there are multiple seals, it wouldn’t be able to escape completely through her body even if it took her over. I don’t know the number of seals, however, or the condition of the others. It’s possible she could be the last one remaining, for all I know.”

“…How powerful would a worldmaker controlling Wrynn’s body be? Would they only be as powerful as Wrynn, or would they have their own full strength?”

Keras winced. “…Probably stronger than Wrynn at her full strength, which I’ve never seen.”

“If you had an estimate?” I asked.

“At her full strength, Wrynn is probably in the same range as a visage. A worldmaker in control of her body…it’s very hard to say. I don’t think there’s anyone on this continent that could match her directly.”

“Not even you?”

Keras gave a sad laugh. “…Not in my current condition. I’d have to really cut loose if the worldmaker got free, and that might be…” He shook his head. “Let’s not let it come to that. I like this continent.”

I shivered.

“Oh, stop being dramatic. You’re scaring the child.” Elora turned to me. “If Wrynn is already under the worldmaker’s control, the box itself would likely fail to summon her. If she’s just out in the world and in control, there’s no risk. If she’s in stasis, it would take time for the stasis to wear off before she — or the worldmaker — can do anything. If we summon her and she’s wet, we hit her with anti-possession techniques, then throw her in another stasis pool if that isn’t good enough.”

I felt a little better knowing they had a plan, but…“It feels like a small mistake here could, say, erase this city.”

“We’re not going to summon her here, silly.” Elora pointed toward a wall — or, rather, beyond it. “We’re going to summon her in the middle of nowhere up near Vanreach. We’ll only transport her back here after we’ve made certain she’s stable.”

“Ah. I suppose that makes more sense. Still, is this really a good idea? Shouldn’t we be informing people like, say, all of the visages, in case we free a worldmaker?”

“No,” Keras said. “They might try to free him deliberately. That’s…complicated. If she’s truly lost control…” His hand shifted to the hilt his side. “I’ll take care of it.”

I didn’t know what to say to that.

“Well, murdering your old friend is a cheerful image, isn’t it?” Elora smiled. “On that note, let’s get going.”

Elora headed down the stairs. Derek gave me an apologetic look, then followed.

“…You’re really sure about this?” I asked Keras.

“I can’t wait any longer. I’m sorry. There are things coming that even I can’t handle on my own. There are risks in doing this, but…we’re going to need Wrynn’s help if this world is going to survive.”

That didn’t make me feel better in the slightest. Still, I followed Keras down the stairs.

Well, I considered, if we’re about to destroy Kaldwyn with our hubris, at least I get a front row seat.

***I shivered.

This is one of those times where I’d normally say “and not because of the cold”, or something equally dramatic, but no, it was the cold. We were at the border of spring, but the Vanreach Mountains were still covered in snow, especially at high altitudes. While I’d been okay in the frigid temperatures of Emerald House, apparently my growing cold resistance wasn’t quite enough to deal with wind chill and wet clothing.

I didn’t know exactly how high Elora had teleported us, but from the uncomfortably close cliffside, I could see for miles and miles. And from my difficulty breathing, I suspected that the air was pretty thin.

…Admittedly, part of that might have just been my hyperventilating at the idea of summoning a possibly possessed legendary sorcerer.

This was a terrible idea. I reminded them a couple more times, but there wasn’t exactly anything else I could do.

I mean, aside from taking several steps back and start preparing every defensive item I had. It didn’t seem likely that any of my defenses would have any function against something on a worldmaker’s level, but I wasn’t going to just stand there and hope not to die, either.

Elora set up some sort of six-pointed ritual field around where Keras was standing. Presumably, it was some kind of suppression spell. I hadn’t done a lot of studying ritual magic. I mentally catalogued what it looked like for later, but beyond that, I just kept quiet and watched from a distance to make sure I didn’t disrupt anything.

Elora took several steps back, then began raising layers and layers of barrier spells where Keras stood. I appreciated the precaution.

“Everyone ready?” Keras asked.

“Yep.” Derek had both swords unsheathed and resting against his shoulders.

“Preparations are complete.” Elora said. “Definitely not,” I chimed in. “But go ahead.”

Keras nodded to each of us. Then, gingerly, he opened the Jaden Box and slipped a piece of dark cloth inside.

He took a deep breath. “Summon Wrynn Jaden.” The world went black.

I would have staggered backward if I could have moved. Something held me in place. Not just my fear — a presence that froze me solid down to my very soul.

If that presence had been any closer, any less confined, I think it might have killed me outright. If it had lasted more than an instant, I felt like I might have shattered into pieces—But then Keras was there and the world was cut.

Silver flashed around his body, enveloping him and ripping the darkness to shreds. His left hand still held the box, but his right was gripping the underside of her chin. A woman clad in nothing but liquid darkness.

Her eyes were pitch black, somehow deeper than the aura that enveloped me.

Worldmaker. No, I need to—I couldn’t even open my mouth to speak the single word to escape. This being’s power, even restrained by whatever spells that Elora had put in place, even with all the layers of Emerald-level barriers…I couldn’t do a thing.

She whispered a single word. The mountainside beneath us trembled.

Keras dropped the Jaden Box, lifted his now-free hand, and…booped her on the nose.

“Knock it off, Wrynn. It’s me, Sal.” The black-eyed woman blinked.

…And the overwhelming, deadly darkness, vanished in an instant.

I did stagger, then, falling to my feet. I barely resisted the urge to retch.

…And to my sides, behind their own barriers, I saw that Derek and Elora weren’t managing much better. They managed to keep their feet, but Derek was clutching his swords tighter than I’d ever seen, and Elora had a trembling hand extended with a ring already shimmering. I’d only seen her use those rings for one thing — to summon Suzaku’s power for a Sapphire-level spell.

“…Sal?” The woman’s eyes met his own. “What happened to you? What’s wrong?”

His shoulders slumped, the weight he’d been bearing for too long had finally managed to push down on them. “That…” He pressed his forehead against her own, his eyes pressing shut, “…is a very long story.”

“It’s okay, Sal.” She wrapped her arms around him. “I’m here now.”

Keras pulled her tighter. “I missed you.”

***After a few minutes of awkwardly watching Keras and Wrynn’s reunion, Elora stepped closer to ask a question. “So, Miss Jaden. I hate to be rude, but what are the odds you’re going to go berserk and kill us in the next few minutes?”

Wrynn turned away from Keras with those strange, still- black eyes, and focused on Elora. “Oh, none. It’ll be at least an hour.”

Elora’s eye twitched.

“Kidding, kidding.” Wrynn smiled. “A bit of gallows humor, sorry. Don’t you worry, I’m…” She frowned, “… mostly stable. Not as much as I’d like to be, but we’re talking about problems coming up on a scale of…weeks, maybe months if I’m lucky. It…should be longer.” She turned to Keras. “Sal, how long has it been?”

“Ten years, from my frame of reference.”

“From mine as well,” Elora added. “You may not remember me, but—”

“I never forget a face, Miss Theas. You’ve grown quite a bit from the lanky teenager I remember seeing in the spire. I don’t believe I’ve had the pleasure of meeting the other two of you, however.”

“The pleasure is mine, Miss Jaden.” Derek bowed in place. “Derek of House Hartigan.”

“A Hartigan! How lovely. I’ll have to talk to you about certain matters regarding your ancestor before I leave. And you, young sir?”

“Corin Cadence.” I bowed with a little less enthusiasm than Derek had managed.

“Alaric’s boy?” Wrynn asked.

I blinked. “His great grandson.”

“Oh. That…that’s something I do lose track of.” Wrynn sighed. “What have I missed?”

“Most of your clothing, apparently.” Keras slipped his trouble coat off and wrapped it around her. “And a great deal otherwise.” He leaned down and lifted up the Jaden Box— her box — and handed it to her. “Are you feeling up to moving somewhere a little warmer?”

“Oh, I do like it up here, but I suppose if the rest of you are uncomfortable.” She slipped her arm under Keras’ and turned to Elora. For a moment, Wrynn’s pupils shifted to a strange, diamond-shape, then reverted to normal. “You are strong enough to teleport now, yes?”

“…Indeed, Miss Jaden. I’m pleased you noticed. Are we… secure to teleport now? You’re certain the worldmaker won’t free itself again?”

“Again?” Keras blinked. “Oh, you thought that was…” He shook his head. “The worldmaker was never in control of Wrynn. That was just Wrynn being surprised when we summoned her. If the worldmaker was in charge, that would have been much worse.”

…Somehow, I didn’t feel the slightest bit comforted by that.

“Shall we go?” Wrynn asked, reaching out and prodding one of the barriers with a finger. It collapsed instantly at her touch.

“Of course, Miss Jaden.” Elora gave a strained smile. “Right away.”

***We arrived outside Derek’s house without any further incident. In spite of Elora’s boasting about being able to bypass the teleportation defenses, she either couldn’t afford the mana or chose not to. Even just getting us back from Vanreach seemed to drain her significantly…which I suppose made sense, given that she was teleporting several people a distance of hundreds of miles. I didn’t know many people who could do that in general — most teleportation was limited to miles in the single digits. It wasn’t as flashy as throwing one of her Sapphire-level attack spells, but in some ways, simply moving us that distance in an instant was more impressive.

…Maybe I should have asked her to save us a train ride to Caelford. Then again, that’s both further in miles and she probably is using some kind of teleportation anchors to cross. I’m not sure if she has something like that set up in Caelford. And right now…I have bigger questions to ask.

Derek quickly ushered us into the house. Keras grabbed Wrynn and vanished in a blur of speed, returning a few moments later on his own.

I blinked. “Everything okay?”

“…Not okay, but better. I just dropped her in my room for a minute to get dried off and to get some clothes on. It’s possible we shouldn’t have summoned someone out of a pool of liquid into a frozen mountain range.”

“Oh. That’s…surprisingly mundane, but it makes sense.

Should I worry about her attacking us again?”

Keras shook his head. “She didn’t attack in the first place. Not exactly. That was just a spirit suppression technique — she probably activated it instinctively on being teleported to an unknown location. It might have felt like an attack, but it was basically the equivalent of the anti-magic fields that your Shadows can use, just Artinian flavored.”

“That…wasn’t even an attack?” I exhaled a breath. A glance to the side showed Derek’s expression being set in a firm grimace and Elora’s smile looking strained. They must have felt the same way. “I felt like she was strangling my soul.”

“Uh, yeah, sorry on her behalf. Spirit Arts can hit people pretty hard if they don’t have spirit-based defenses. I imagine your shrouds softened it a bit, but without actually developing the strength of your spirit, it probably impacted you much more than it would hit someone on Artinia with a similar level of power to your own. Sort of like draining the mana out of someone who doesn’t have an attunement.”

“I do have spirit defenses and it still nearly floored me.” Derek sounded bitter. “If anything, you’ve been understating how powerful Jaden is. I don’t think a hypothetical Sapphire-level Shadow could have cast a spell that debilitating.”

Keras shrugged a shoulder. “Sorry. I never asked what level she was in Spirit Arts. I didn’t have any familiarity with them when I last saw her.”

“Implying, of course, that you do now.” Elora folded her arms. “What does your current assessment tell you?”

“Too soon to say. And honestly, I don’t see much reason to share, even if I knew. That’s up to her — and you probably won’t have any need to know. I expect to be leaving shortly.”

“Don’t feel the need to disappear right away. Your friend may need time to rest and learn about the current world. I wouldn’t mind another house guest for a while.” Derek noted.

I felt a bit of hope, but from the firmness of Keras’ expression, I could tell his mind had already set on his path. “I’ll discuss it with her, but I don’t anticipate staying more than a couple days. There are dire things on the horizon and I’ve waited for too long as it is.”

“Well, if Miss Jaden is dressed, perhaps you could inform all of us about these ‘dire things’ at once?” Elora asked.

“Some of it is personal, and I’ll need to talk to Wrynn about that alone — but there are a few things I can share with you. Let me go check on her and see if she’s ready to talk.”

***A few minutes later, we all sat around the dinner table. Not just those of us who had gone to the mountain for Wrynn’s summoning — the whole household had been called in for the conversation. Well, aside from Cecily. She was out with her sister.

Wrynn sat next to Keras, her chair closer to his than strictly necessary. She leaned up against him, still occasionally shivering in spite of the relative warmth of the home’s interior. Maybe that was a reaction to the sudden shift in her environment, but I worried that it might be a consequence of something more sinister.

Those strange eyes were still pitch black, but now, they studied everyone in the room. That seemed only fair, given that she was clearly the center of attention. She stood out not just due to her identity and reputation, but also her strange appearance — she was no longer writhed in shadow, but strange inky tattoos could be seen on the parts of her arms that were exposed beneath a borrowed shirt. They were clearly magical, but didn’t resemble an attunement — they looked more like a flowing cursive script with one unfamiliar letter leading into another.

No, “unfamiliar” isn’t exactly the right word — I’d seen something similar before. The runes on her box were more self-contained, but seemingly in the same script, or perhapsan ancestor of it. I wanted to study the flowing language further, but I didn’t exactly feel comfortable asking the legendary sorcerer to remove her shirt so I could get a better look. It was a purely scholarly question, but even I could tell that wouldn’t sound like one.

“Miss Jaden, it is an absolute pleasure to finally meet you. Keras holds you in quite high regard, and given his standards, that implies that you are a person to be reckoned with. I’m Sera Cadence.” Sera reached across the table to extend a hand. Wrynn shifted from leaning against Keras and shook Sera’s hand without any of the awkwardness that Keras demonstrated with the process.

Ah, right. She’s a foreigner, but she’s been on Kaldwyn before — probably several times at different periods of history. And it’s not like Valian handshakes have changed much in the last decade or two…at least as far as I know.

“A pleasure, Miss Cadence. I had the pleasure to know your great grandfather many decades ago, albeit briefly. I hope your family has fared well in the years since Alaric’s triumph.”

Sera smiled sweetly. “I think you’ll find that our generation of the family has been doing exceptionally well— both in our training and our chosen company. You already know of House Hartigan and Theas, of course, and we are privileged to have formed such close ties with families nearly as legendary as your own. I am also pleased to introduce you to our retainer, Patrick Wayland-Cadence, and our adventuring companion, Marissa Callahan.”

Wrynn nodded, then turned to Patrick and Mara. “A pleasure to meet you both.”

“H—hullo.” Patrick reached out and shook Wrynn’s hand, looking uncharacteristically nervous.

Mara was the opposite, half-lunging across the table to shake hands with Wrynn. “Mara, please, if ye would. My friends call me that, and I’m hopin’ you’ll count yourself among them.”

I blinked. I hadn’t heard her drop into her accent quite that strongly in a while. A manifestation of her own nervousness, maybe?Mara’s handshake with Wrynn looked a little firm. If Wrynn noticed that, she said nothing on the subject. “Mara it is, then. I haven’t been here long, but Sal has already spoken very highly of you. I can’t believe he has an apprentice! And such a cute one, too!”

Mara blushed bright red as she released her grip on Wrynn’s hand. “…Ah, my, I…thank you?”

Wrynn gave Keras a mischievous look. Keras rolled his eyes and whispered something in Wrynn’s ear — which made her give an exaggerated gasp and cover her mouth. “My, my. You’ve been busy, you scoundrel!”

Keras leaned against the table and covered his face with his hands. He looked very much like he wanted to meld into the table and disappear. “Wrynn Jaden, destroyer of propriety. I’d almost forgotten.”

“Ooh, a new title! I love it, thank you.” Wrynn grinned. “So, now that basic introductions are out of the way and I’ve embarrassed Sal a little,” she reached out a hand and mussed his hair, “let’s talk business, shall we?”

“Of course.” Elora Theas looked to Derek, then at his nod, she reached under the table and withdrew a large box. Not the Jaden Box, of course — Wrynn had seemingly already stashed it somewhere — but a classic treasure box. She slid it across the table. “I’m aware that Master Selyrian has some sort of secret plan for you already, and Master Selyrian, please forgive me for my rude interruption of those plans. That said, the people of Valia are currently in a dire place — one that would greatly benefit from your services. One significant enough that House Hartigan and House Theas have chosen to combine our resources — a rarity, I’m sure you understand — to offer to hire your services.”

Wrynn raised an eyebrow at the box…then her eyes shifted again, the blackness not fading, but a strangediamond-like shape manifesting across the surface. Upon her eyes reverting to normal, she reached across for the box, poked a finger into the lock — producing an immediate “click” — and then flipped the top open.

Derek muttered something about a “show off”. Keras gave Elora a sharp look, to which she replied with a shrug, then he looked back to Wrynn.

Meanwhile, Wrynn only glanced inside for a moment before shutting the top. I didn’t have a chance to look at the contents — the top didn’t open in a direction that was visible from my side of the table — but from the upturn of her lips, she seemed to like what she saw. “An interesting offer. I’ll keep it in mind, but I need to know what Sal needs first and discuss the details with you both to see if something can be arranged.”

“Naturally. Master Hartigan and I can draw up formal terms if that would be preferable to you.”

Wrynn waved a hand dismissively. “No need for that just yet. Don’t want to waste your time if what Sal needs is going to make it impossible. Speaking of…Sal, you said some of what you need is private, but you could talk about some of it here?”

Keras nodded and straightened up. “Yeah.” He took a breath, seemed to gather his resolve, then turned to address the table as a whole. “As all of you know, I originally came to this continent a decade ago with a mission to reach the goddess Selys to ask for her assistance with an existential threat to our planet. My mission was a ruse, at least in some respects — but by coming here, I did learn a great deal about dangers that are very real. Botheas. The Buried. The Tyrant in Gold. And, perhaps most urgently, the coming of the Devouring Dark. The one that the people of this world call the ‘Sun Eater’.”

Keras had mentioned the Sun Eater many times while telling us his story on the train, but there was something about how he said it now that sent a shiver down my spine.

Something about it felt more real, both in his tone and phrasing — he wasn’t just telling us a fanciful tale now. His demeanor told us that this was a threat he saw as being immediately relevant, not some fanciful tale from days long past.

…And the “Devouring Dark”? That name was what Ishyeal Dawnsglow had used for the Sun Eater, wasn’t it? Was there some significance to Keras choosing to introduce the Sun Eater that way this time?By the way Wrynn responded with narrowed eyes, I suspected there was more to that name than I understood. “We saw Lord Kyestri making plans back on Mythralis, but we stopped him. How much have things progressed in my absence?”

Keras’ hands tightened. “…He’s on his way, Wrynn. Soon. I’ve fought several of his harbingers across multiple continents, shattered entire legions of his shades — it’s not enough. His agents are too many and too varied. I can’t be everywhere at once…and it’s getting worse. When I fought one of the last harbingers, she said something about ‘new ser’vek’.”

Wrynn winced. “New ser’vek? If he’s making more, then…”

“Forgive me, but my level of familiarity with the Sun Eater is largely limited to myth and legend,” Elora interjected. “What is a ‘ser’vek’ and why is this such a concern?”

Keras exhaled deeply. “Sorry. Wrynn, you want this one?” “Sure.” Wrynn turned to Elora. “Okay, so. The Sun Eateris a horrifying monstrosity that travels from planet to planet, obliterating entire civilizations and then repurposing the world’s natural resources for his own use. When he invades a planet, his armies are formed from shades — basically, animate shadows torn from living beings — that are puppets at his command. His shades aren’t generally very strong on their own, but they can take control of living people in aprocess we call the ‘vek taint’. Vek are basically people that have been rendered completely subservient to the Sun Eater.”

“And ser’vek?” Elora asked.

“Ser’vek are what happens when his shades get their hands on a god.”

“…Oh.” Elora blinked. “That’s quite a grim prospect, isn’t it?”

“Wait, wait.” Derek raised his hands. “Do we even have enough gods left for that? I know that some of the things we’ve been told about the Tyrant in Gold are propaganda, but I was under the impression that he killed the majority of them, at least.”

“He probably did,” Keras admitted, “or at least beat them into submission. But there are still some alive — mostly on isolated continents like Vylin Tor. And…sealed within the world.”

Wrynn growled. “The Buried. Not even the Sun Eater would be mad enough to free them, would he…? No, I retract the question. Of course he would.”

“…I don’t know a lot about the Buried, but from what I gather, aren’t they basically an existential threat to humanity on their own?” I asked.

“That’s underselling it, if anything.” Wrynn grimaced. “Even a single origin beast getting free would potentially be a threat to all of humanity. The gods that sealed them away thousands of years ago are mostly crippled, dead, or missing. And if more than one got free, or a seal on one of the worldmakers was broken…” Wrynn shook her head. “Our world wouldn’t survive another conflict between makers.”

I considered that. “…Not to make things even more grim, but I have to ask — could the Sun Eater control one of these origin beasts or a worldmaker with his shades?”

“I don’t know.” Keras answered. “And I would rather that we never have to find out.”

“It may be beyond that point, if he’s making new ser’vek already.” Wrynn grimaced. “Unless you think that harbinger was bluffing, or that he’s active on Vylin Tor?”

“It’s most likely the latter. I’ve heard stories about a being called the ‘Bloodletter’ being worshipped there — I believe that’s a cult that his harbingers are setting up to prepare for his arrival.”

“…Then, I have to ask. Why are you here, Sal, instead of over there?”

He flinched. “…I tried to handle this on my own for… longer than I could. I came back to Kaldwyn after a disaster to try to see if I could pursue one of my original goals here, but with a slightly changed purpose — to reach Selys and ask for her help, but this time specifically to deal with the Sun Eater. Unfortunately, my recent findings have given me reason to doubt that I’ll ever be able to reach her.”

“The Tiger Spire.” Sera interjected. “I believe it’s about time you told us what happened in there.”

Keras hesitated, then nodded to her. “I suppose you deserve an explanation, but I can’t give you full answers without antagonizing powers you don’t want me to bring into this. The simple answer is that I reached the mid-point of the tower, at which point I met with a visage. We had a talk. They offered me chance to abandon my climb there in exchange for a boon. I refused, but they told me that I still wouldn’t be allowed to climb higher — that there had been an ‘agreement’ that I could not be allowed to be the one who reached Selys.”

“Did you fight them?” Mara asked.

“No. It would have been pointless. I demanded answers, and to my surprise, I was given some of them — but they were not answers that I had hoped for. It would seem that Katashi has been deliberately wasting my time.” He frowned. “That’s not to say that I’ve considered my time living with all of you a waste, but—”

“We get it.” Sera nodded. “You just mean that Katashi’s ‘deal’ to help you meet with Selys was negotiated under a false pretext.”

“The Visage of Valor wouldn’t lie.” Patrick folded his arms. I was a little surprised by his objection, but Keras brushed it off quickly enough.

“You can believe what you want. The bottom line is that I can’t rely on our deal to reach Selys — and what Corin’s brother told him was seemingly true. The six visages have no intention of letting me reach the top of the spires. Not the ones they control, at least.”

“What is that supposed to mean?” I asked. “Is there…” I put it together a moment later based on an oddity in his wording. “The Seventh Spire. Of course. If there’s a seventh spire, then logically…”

“There’s a seventh visage.” Sera looked strangely grim. “Do you have any reason to believe that this seventh visage would be more likely to help you?”

“…Not exactly. But the seventh visage has long held an interest in me…and he doesn’t play by the same rules that the rest do. I’m not supposed to talk to him again, but…I have a plan for that. It might not be perfect, but it’s the best chance at success I have. And I…don’t think I can do it alone.”

He looked at Wrynn hopefully. “I don’t know, Sal. I’ve heard about the Seventh Spire, but I’ve never been in there. Do you even have a way to get in?”

“I think so.” He grimaced. “…In fact, I think I’ve been there before.”

Mara gave him a concerned look. “You think?”

“I suppose it’s worth explaining that a bit, too.” Keras hesitated for a moment, then rolled up his right sleeve.

Black inky marks trailed from his elbow to shoulder in a design that was now unmistakable. They weren’t the same runes as Wrynn’s, not exactly, but they were clearly the same language.

“Sal! That’s…” Wrynn startled. “No! You can’t. No one else alive knows the Seven-Branched Seal! Not unless…”

“No, it wasn’t your mentor. I had…a little help from looking into the past.”

Wrynn shook her head. “You shouldn’t have done that, Sal. You — you don’t know the consequences of using that seal like I do. It’s not just your abilities being sealed, it’s…”

“My memories. I know.” He sighed. “I have significant gaps, but…it was necessary to retain control.”

“Wait, wait. Are you saying you have a seal for one of the worldmakers?” I asked.

“No. This is similar to Wrynn’s seal, but not identical. My seven branches, my seven seals…they’re…more personal.”

The sacred swords, I considered immediately. Is that why he can’t sense them anymore?“We’re getting distracted from the main issue,” Keras said before I could ask for further clarity. “The Sun Eater’s forces are converging on this world — and not slowly. In truth, I’ve already spent far more time here than we can afford, but I couldn’t keep ahead of them without help. And, as I’ve proven time and time again, I’m not a diplomat. Even if I can make people see the threat, I’m much better at making enemies than getting help. Even if I could make it to the top of the Seventh Spire on my own and reach Selys somehow…I’d probably just end up starting a fight. I need someone who can talk to people like her. Someone with the power to help me climb the spire and the diplomatic abilities necessary to ensure it isn’t a disaster like my meetings with the visages have been.”

“Shouldn’t there be other people working on this problem already that have the skills necessary for avoiding conflict?” Sera asked. “Ishyeal Dawnsglow and his ilk?”

“Perhaps. I can’t remember where Ishy is. I’ve tried looking, and I’ve tried contacting him, but…I don’t even know if he’s alive.” Keras shook his head. “Perhaps he’s in the Seventh Spire. If he is, that’s an even greater reason forme to go there. Linking up with him would be…good, if he’s still alive. And if the others…”

“Wait. Does he have the sacred swords?” I asked.

Keras’ voice was small, then, barely a whisper. “…I don’t know that, either. And…I can’t be certain, but…I think that was a deliberate choice on my part, and, perhaps…on the part of any of them that remain alive.”

We were all silent for a moment, then. It was Wrynn that spoke up again next, perhaps due to her lack of context for how much that admission must have hurt him. She reached over to squeeze his hand. “I’d like to help you, of course, but…Sal…climbing the Seventh Spire…I don’t know if I’ll be stable long enough for that.”

“I know. Not as you are now, at least. So…let me share your burden.”

She shook her head. “You already gave me a piece of your spirit. It may have changed and gotten stronger sufficiently that another piece might help, but—”

“No, not like that. I know the seal now. I could—” “Absolutely not.” Wrynn’s tone was firm. “Using the sealfor what you’re already doing is questionable enough. Putting a second seal on yourself, one tied to the maker? That’s absolute madness.”

“We’ll discuss this further privately.” Keras folded his arms.

Wrynn snorted. “Sure, if you feel like being refused again behind closed doors, be my guest.”

“…Maybe you could stay a bit and work on solvin’ that here?” Mara asked, hope bleeding raw into her tone.

“No.” Keras said. “We’ll talk about details later, but… we’re going to need to leave within the next few days. I have some ideas we can try to stabilize Wrynn’s condition if she won’t let me help directly,” his tone made it clear how annoyed he was at that, “but even if we can’t get her stable and she has to stay in the stasis pool here, I need to go. I’ve waited too long.”

“You’ve made it clear you would likely fail at diplomacy on your own,” Elora noted. “Perhaps we could make some sort of exchange? If you were willing to assist further with some our local problems, perhaps I could accompany you in Miss Jaden’s absence?”

“Take me with you.” Mara stood up suddenly, her eyes flaring with sudden intensity as she made her decision. “Not a diplomat, but I don’t need payment. I just…if you’re leaving…”

“Mara.” He reached across the table to put a hand on her head and pat her gently. “You’re not ready.”

She ripped away from his touch, her face raw with emotion at his rejection. “Think I can be the one who judges that, can’t I? I—” Her jaw slammed shut, her lips trembling, then she turned and pushed herself away from the table and vanished up the stairs.

“Mara, wait!” Keras pushed away from the table as well, turning to follow.

“Oh, let the lovesick little girl go.” Elora rolled her eyes. “The adults still need to talk.”

Wrynn rose, looking straight at Elora, and for just an instant the entire room seemed to darken. I felt just a hint of that heart-gripping pressure again — not a full-technique, but the threat of one, like a sword tilted slightly in the scabbard.

And it wasn’t directed at me.

Elora blanched as Wrynn leaned closer to her.

“You will not insult the bond between a master and apprentice again.” Wrynn’s voice was icy cold. “If you do, you will answer to me.”

“You…I…” Elora shuddered. “I apologize for my poor conduct, Miss Jaden. I didn’t realize—”

“All forgiven!” Wrynn sat back down suddenly. “Just be more careful, okay? Now, Sal, Miss Theas had a point, crude as she was — we have further business. And…I think yourapprentice could use some space from you, at least for a little while.”

“I’ll check on her.” Patrick offered.

Keras hesitated for a moment, then nodded. “Thank you, Patrick.” He slid back into his seat, giving one last glance in the direction Mara had retreated. “Now, I have some other ideas on how to stabilize your condition, Wrynn, but…I suppose you should at least hear the details of Miss Theas’ offer.”

“Indeed. Thank you for the consideration, Master Selyrian.” Elora’s cheer seemed to return rapidly, though I noted at least a hint of uncharacteristic nervousness remaining in her tone. “Now, let me tell you a bit about our problem with the ‘Sons of Valia’, and our ongoing difficulties with the absence of the visage Tenjin…”

The conversation quickly veered into more familiar territory. Wrynn listened carefully, but I tuned it out for the most part — old information was boring.

And I couldn’t stop thinking about a change I wasn’t quite ready for.

One way or another, Keras was leaving soon, and I had no way — and no right — to stop it.

