CHAPTER XXVI – WAITING FOR WAKING

That night was hard.

I sat with the rest of them for a time, trading stories. After a time, Derek even summoned Tavare, who joined us in the storytelling — their perspective of the strange swordsman who’d lived with us was a little bit terrifying, but even more entertaining.

The next morning was harder.

I headed to the rooftop for some early-morning sparring—But Keras wasn’t there.

Of course he wasn’t there. He’d left, and I knew that, butI…hadn’t fully processed it yet.

Mara was, though. She was sitting on the side of the rooftop, arms hugged around her legs. She startled when I came up, then her back slumped in something like resignation…or disappointment, maybe. The recognition that I wasn’t him, that he hadn’t come back, and that…it was just us now.

Just us, a box of fragmented memories, and a coat that was too big for her to wear.

She looked away. “…Mornin’, Corin.”

“Morning.” No “good” to preface it. Not for either of us. “…You want a match?”

She was silent for a moment, then frowned. “…Not just yet, I think.”

I nodded.

I wasn’t sure I was ready just yet, either.

We were silent for a moment, then she patted the roof next to her.

I hesitated, uncertain, then…silently, I sat down. We watched the sun rise together.

Somehow, that just made me miss him more.

***We finally had a half-hearted sparring match after a quiet hour or three, then retreated for breakfast. I considered breaking open the box with Keras’ training crystals, but it seemed too soon. I wasn’t ready to see him again, and I knew it’d be even worse for Mara if I decided to share the memory crystals with her — which I obviously did, unless his crystals instructed me not to.

After that, I resolved to get my mind off of it with an errand I’d been meaning to run for a while. I went and visited Researcher, acquired a memory crystal with her assistance, then headed to a warm and familiar face.

“Corin Cadence! What brings my favorite customer here?” Lars grinned across the counter. I was half- embarrassed to have him call me his “favorite customer” while others were in the store, but in fairness, he probably called them the exact same thing.

“I have something I promised you.” I reached into my bag to retrieve the memory crystal.

“Is that…” His expression sank for a moment, showing uncharacteristic hurt. “I, uh, thank you, lad. I wasn’t sure if you’d…”

I reached out and put it on the table. “Don’t feel obligated to watch it if you don’t want to. I don’t know if…”

He shook his head. “No. I need to know.” He glanced around the shop. “Come back later, would you? Around closing. I’d like to talk to you about this more.”

I nodded. “Sure. I…wouldn’t mind that.”

So, I left. The rest of the day was an unmemorable blur.

Then, I went back.

Lars closed the shop after I arrived, then pulled up two chairs for us.

“You going to watch it now?” I asked.

“Already did, soon as the place was empty. A few times.” His shoulders slumped. “It…was just what I’d feared. But… thank you. I needed to see this. And with it, maybe…maybe I can start to figure out what happened.”

“You’re really going to try to find that place? After what happened?”

Lars nodded. “I am. I’m aware of the risks, but I owe them that. All of them. And…I believe I owe you a story.”

“You don’t need to tell me a thing. You’ve done plenty for me as-is.”

He shook his head. “No, no. I wouldn’t forgive myself if I didn’t tell you this — to make sure that what happened in here,” he gestured to the crystal, “never happens again.”

“…What do you mean?”

He closed his eyes. “You recall what I told you of the sword’s curse?”

“Of course. And you told me more recently that you weren’t really sure what it was, but that you tried to sell me the feather to help, even if it wasn’t literally a curse. I appreciate that.”

“Having seen what happened to Eria and the others… it’s…I think it’s important that you know more about the risks.”

“Eria? That’s…the woman in the vision?”

He gave me a sad smile. “She was an amazing fighter. I knew a lot of talented warriors, of course — but she was one of the best.”

“As good as Keras?”

Lars snorted. “Let’s not be ridiculous. Eria was an Emerald, but Keras…if you’ve seen him really cut loose… he’s a monster. But he was our monster.”

I felt a smile at that. I knew what he meant. “What did you want to tell me about Eria, then?”

“It’s less about her, in specific, and more about the sword. She…she had visions like yours. And as time went on, they got clearer and clearer, until she got the impression that the sword was waiting for something.”

“Waiting? I frowned. “For what?” “For someone to wake it up.”

I frowned. “I…didn’t think the sword was that self-aware.”

“I suspect it wasn’t, at least when you first picked it up. The sword looks different from what I remember, you see. And I can only imagine that’s because of what happened in the vision.”

“The sword was broken.” I considered. “…And Keras mentioned something about the sword being fixed differently from the original, too. That it’s been broken many times before. He had other names for previous forms of it.”

“Ah, so he told you about that? Wasn’t sure if ‘e’d be wanting to share. Wielders always kept their business close to the heart, you know?”

“You knew other wielders?”

He raised an eyebrow at me. “Why, ‘course I did. Don’t know how much Selyrian has told you, but our camp was full of ‘em for a while. Dawnsglow liked to come and go, of course, and Akari wasn’t exactly a wielder, but…”

“I knew that Keras was with your expedition for a while, but he…didn’t get quite that far in telling his story. And I’m not sure if he’s going to, now.”

“Oh? Not like him to end a story early. What’s the problem?”

“…He’s gone.”

“Gone? You don’t mean…”

I raised my hands in alarm. “Oh, no, not dead! Sorry, sorry. Just…he left with an old friend.”

Lars grinned. “An old friend? Not one with golden eyes, was she?”

I shook my head. “No, nothing like that. Pitch black eyes, in fact.”

“Pitch black…” He frowned. “Meridian’s were dark, but I would have heard if…”

“I don’t think he’d mind if I tell you — he managed to summon Wrynn Jaden.”

“Oh! Jaden. He’d talked about her many times, but I never had the pleasure.” He slapped his table. “That bastard!  He  summoned  one  of  the  most  infamousmerchants in the history of the world and didn’t even give me an introduction?!”

I had to smile at his indignation. “…I’m sure it just slipped his mind.”

“Well, I’ll make him pay for it when he comes back.” “…You think he’s coming back?”

Lars scoffed. “Of course he is, lad. Why would you think otherwise?”

“I…I don’t know. He just…it sounded like he had something important to do.”

“Right. ‘Course he does. Keras always has a quest. Several, really. Lad has a backlog of quests. But if there’s one thing you can be sure of…Keras Selyrian never abandons his friends. He’ll be back before you know it.”

…I doubted that even more than I doubted Lars’ stories in general, but it still felt good to hear it.

“That’s…thanks.”

“Now, that’s enough about our local sword collector. You have your own weapon to think about.”

“…Yeah. Selys-Lyann. Eria thought it was about to wake up?”

Lars nodded. “…Yeah. Several times, she said something about it getting close…and as it happened more and more, she got this feeling of foreboding. Like…even though it was her sword, she had this primal fear of whatever was inside it. And that she felt like when it happened, something would come for her. You get anything like that?”

I considered that. “…Maybe once, during a sparring session. Thought I heard a voice. Nothing since that, though. I think that, if anything, the sword may have fallen back to sleep.”

“Good. I suppose if you break a cursed sword enough, you might break the curse along with it.”

I wasn’t so sure of that.

We talked for a while after that. He told me stories of Eria and his old companions until late into the night. It waspleasant enough, comfortable, at least at first.

Maybe it was my imagination, but as his stories continued, I thought I felt something scratching at the boundaries of my mind.

Like when Lars had told his stories, Selys-Lyann had been listening.

Listening. Remembering. And waiting.

