CHAPTER XIX – ON A DIFFERENT SCALE

We met on the rooftop, as we’d done many times before. Today’s mood was a bit more somber than usual for our training, though. We had a specific purpose — one we’d neglected for too long.

Keras unbuckled his sword belt and rested it on the far side of the roof. Then, he folded his arms and rejoined us. “You sure you want to do this?”

“Absolutely,” Sera spoke first, but we all nodded in agreement.

Patrick rested his hands on the hilt of Bright Reflection, seeming to seek comfort in the cold of the metal.

Mara just shifted to a fighting stance. “Quit yer ditherin’. We’ve been over this enough. We’re not even making you wear the costume this time.”

Keras frowned, but didn’t argue further. “Okay. I still think we should hire a Conjurer, but yeah, I suppose they couldn’t get the scale right. Derek? Gonna need the toys.”

Derek tossed Keras two bracelets — one white, one yellow. I wasn’t sure I’d seen them before. They weren’t for Tavare and Delsys. “Don’t lose them.”

“Please, Derek. I don’t lose in general.” The line might have been playful, but it lacked Keras’ usual charm. He looked somber as he put the bracelets on…then I was nearly blinded by the flash of light that followed.

Six separate shrouds appeared around him, followed by a flicker of lightning.

“Begin.”

There was no warning…but that was about right, wasn’t it? If she came for us, we wouldn’t get a warning.

“Mizuchi protocols!” Sera shouted.

We responded immediately, shifting into practiced patterns. My mind worked faster than my body, beginning to move as soon as I heard the words.

Hast—But not fast enough. Keras vanished in a blur, then an earsplitting crack shattered the air…and Mara went flying off the rooftop into the distance.

The moment of worry was enough for me to completely lose my focus. In the next, Keras had vanished again, then he was airborne, hurling a spear of lightning in Sera’s direction.

He’s…too fast.

Mara had been fast enough to punch out a simple bolt of lightning when we’d first started in class, but not all spells of the same type were the same speed. A weak lightning spell might approximate the speed of a hurled ball. The best we could have managed might have matched a crossbow bolt.

Keras hurled that javelin faster than a bullet. None of the students could have hoped to handle it—But we had an Emerald with us.

Derek’s aura flared green and he shot into the blast’s path, cleaving through it with Tavare. The lightning shattered harmlessly across the roof, giving us a mere heartbeat to act.

My mind finally started working again.

Haste. Detect Aura.

I drew Selys-Lyann and swung, projecting a burst of icy shards along with my cut. It wasn’t the right type of attack to break through the first layer of Keras’ fake shroud, but I needed to do what I could to simply distract him and give the others a chance to work.

I failed. He ignored the ice entirely as it splashed against his defenses and melted, then he slammed back down onto the rooftop with a crack, sending a shockwave across the ground that hurled us off our feet. Only Derek remained standing.

…And Patrick?I blinked in wonder as I struggled to push myself to my feet. It took me a moment to understand how he’d resistedthe blast. Patrick wasn’t standing — he was floating. He must have cast a levitation spell the moment the fight started.

While Keras rushed at Derek with his bare hands glowing with electrical energy, Patrick pointed Bright Reflection and discharged a compressed blast of light. I’d rarely seen him use the attack, but I couldn’t doubt the power behind it. It was a copy of Luminous Arc, after all — one of Dawnbringer’s most iconic techniques.

Keras swatted it out of the air without even stopping. Derek swung Tavare, but Keras simply batted the sword aside and punched Derek in the chest. The Emerald-level swordsman grunted at the impact, punching Keras with his own off-hand, but Keras barely seemed to notice the impact. A blur of movement that I couldn’t follow, then Derek slid half-way across the roof, clutching his chest. He growled and drew Delsys with his off-hand, but Keras shifted his focus,charging at Patrick.

“Permafrost Cascade!” Shards of ice rained from the sky at Sera’s command, but Keras charged right through them without slowing. When Patrick swung Bright Reflection in a panic, Keras’ hand flew up and caught the blade.

My mind flashed to a similar moment—Mizuchi catching that same blade in the same way, then snapping it in half.

My heart and body froze at the memory. Patrick fared no better.

Keras simply tore the sword out of his hand, then jammed it straight into the stone of the roof. A brief look of pain and regret crossed his face, but he didn’t stop.

Keras grabbed Patrick by the collar, lifted him effortlessly, then flicked Patrick in the forehead with his other hand.

“You’re dead.”

“…Yes, sir.”

He tossed Patrick off the roof. Patrick, fortunately, was still levitating, and simply floated downward toward the ground.

Derek closed back in, swinging both swords at Keras’ back at the same time. Keras spun, blocking both swords with his arms, then snapped a kick at Derek. Derek dodged the kick itself, but it carried a blast of lightning along with it that impacted Derek’s shroud and drove him back a step.

“Perfect Prison!”

A green field of force flickered into existence around Keras at Sera’s command, solidifying in a moment. A density spell — and one that simulated a technique we’d seen a thousand times before.

A moment later, Keras was trapped inside a solid box of density mana. A Shaper’s Box.

She started to speak again, but before she could finish the first syllable of Vanniv’s name, Keras had burst through the box and grabbed her around the neck.

Sera choked at his grip.

Something inside me snapped at that sight. I knew it wasn’t real. It was just sparring match, but that image…my sister helpless, her neck moments from being snapped…An image of Mizuchi — the true Mizuchi — flashed through my mind.

No.

}….No…{An unfamiliar voice echoed in my mind, the sound somehow conveying a feeling of frost that sent a chill down my spine.

I shot across the rooftop, icy plates forming across my skin as I intuitively released more transference essence into my legs, boosting myself beyond the limits of my Haste spell to close the distance and swing.

Selys-Lyann arced downward with a frozen flash—And froze in place as Keras caught it in his free hand. “Too slow.”

He hurled Sera to the ground, then twisted Selys-Lyann to disarm me…and failed.

The sword was frozen to my hand.

…Or, more accurately, frozen to my entire body. In the brief run across the rooftop, I’d manifested a full suit of frozen armor across my body.

Keras frowned for the slightest moment, then yanked me closer with one hand and slammed a blazing fist into my chest. My armor cracked, but didn’t break.

Grunting at the impact, I punched him right back. My fist breached his six-layered shroud with force alone, then as my icy gauntlet slammed into his chest, a flare of frost flashed and left a patch of ice across his chest. The ice began to spread, but only for an instant before Keras snapped his fingers and a wave of flame emitted from his body, obliterating both the clinging ice and my frozen gauntlet.

In the next moment, he’d grabbed me by the neck. “Not bad.”

Then he threw me off the roof.

By the time I made it back up, the round was over. Derek and Keras were both panting heavily, having clearly fought considerably longer after the rest of us were defeated.

…But the result was clear enough. Derek’s swords were spread across the rooftop and he was lying with his back braced against a stone wall.

Keras stood over Derek, his hands still flickering with the last lingering traces of lightning.

“So,” Keras turned as I finally came to sit with the others atop the roof, “ready for round two?”

***We trained against Keras for the next several hours, taking periodic breaks to discuss our strategies and shift small elements of the scenario. Initially, we’d decided we’d only call it a “win” if we could incapacitate him somehow, but after that proved impossible, we lowered the thresholdfor victory to allow for any situation which would allow our entire group to escape.

Even focusing on that, we didn’t beat him. Not even once.

It was hard to say how effective Keras was at simulating a Mizuchi attack. He didn’t have all of her abilities, even with the bracelets that Derek had loaned him to simulate some of her more iconic powers.

Conversely, Keras also tended to move significantly faster than I’d seen Mizuchi move, but upon reflection, I’d never seen Mizuchi actually go into a fight with both her full strength and maximum effort. The Winter Ball had been a demonstration, not a real battle for her. No one, aside from Meltlake and Elora, had even been a real threat. And when she’d attacked us again in the spire, she’d been greatly diminished from the lingering effects of Vellum’s banishment spell.

…More so than I’d really realized at the time. I’d known she’d been suspiciously weak, but thinking about it, she’d probably been lowered from something approximating Sapphire-level to…Citrine, maybe?No ordinary banishment spell would have managed that. Of course, an ordinary banishment spell never would have worked on Mizuchi in the first place. Her magic resistance probably should have stopped that, even if Vellum had triggered it through that enchantment on the floor at point- blank range.

…I needed to have a talk with Vellum about how she’d managed that. If I could emulate it somehow, maybe that would give us the chance we needed.

Ultimately, though, that was for another day. For the moment, we had other plans.

We rested, planned, and tried again and again.

And then, with our last failure, Keras helped us to our feet.

“Rest	up.”	He	tossed	the	bracelets	back	to	Derek. “Saffron practice is tomorrow.”

***I didn’t rest. Not precisely, anyway.

I couldn’t rest after what I’d just experienced.

My still-aching bruises, reduced but not removed by the nourishment of continuous regeneration spells, were a lingering reminder of how badly Keras had beaten us during the Mizuchi training simulation. He hadn’t been going unusually hard on us to prove a point — if anything, he’d been going easier than he could have, giving us a chance to try to adapt to the individual abilities he was using to try to simulate Mizuchi’s powers.

Time after time, we’d thrown ourselves at him. In each and every attempt, he’d absolutely crushed us. Even Mara, the strongest of our class, hadn’t been able to land a single serious hit during the practice — not even when we coordinated and tried to buy her time.

Derek was the only one who could even keep up with Keras a little…and, to Derek’s obvious frustration, that “a little” was all it amounted to. He sparred with Keras all the time, but I suspect he wasn’t ready for the power differential demonstrated in that exercise. Either Keras had been holding back very significantly during their earlier fights, as Tavare had implied during the first rooftop duel when they’d been summoned, or…maybe Keras was getting stronger somehow.

Most likely, it was both. It was tough to conceptualize someone like Keras still being able to grow in power, given that he seemed to already be above the Emerald-level cap for the attunement system, but…he’d never operated under the same rules. And, given his personality, it would have been strange to assume he’d simply set aside his own growth during this time period of coaching and protecting the rest of us.

Maybe it was simply conventional training at work…or maybe he’d been pushed by something in the Tiger Spire. Something there had bothered him considerably, but I still didn’t know exactly what it was. Perhaps it was worth asking…but I didn’t know if that would risk making his mental state worse.

I pushed that thought aside for the moment. Keras wasn’t what I needed to think about, except for what he represented — an absolute wall of power that I had no way of breaching. I didn’t expect to have to fight him seriously, of course, but the whole point of the exercise was to figure out how we might handle a Mizuchi attack if she came at us seriously — and the answer was simple. As it was, we’d all die without putting up a fight.

That was absolutely unacceptable.

I was certain the others felt the same way, and that they’d throw themselves into new types of training and strategizing…but I was in a unique position.

As long as I had mana left, I could improve my chances of winning in the future. And so, with that in mind, I had to head straight back to working, but in a very different way.

First, I tried talking to my sword. Both in the literal sense of speaking aloud and trying to communicate telepathically.

I’d heard something from Selys-Lyann. I was certain of it. Unfortunately, any efforts I made to directly communicate prompted no response.

I’ll need to do more specialized research on this. For the moment, I have other things to prioritize.

There was never enough time for the enchanting projects I wanted to work on.

I set down the final communication necklace, feeling comforted that I’d finally finished one item on my checklist. There was one for every member of the household now. I’d distributed most of them already — holding onto them until the whole batch was done would have been an unnecessary risk, since threats could arise at any time — but I finally hadthe last one in my hands. The final one was for Derek. Aside from Keras, he was at the lowest risk of needing help in an emergency situation.

He was out, so I dropped it off at his door with a note, grateful that I didn’t have to talk to him directly. Then I headed back to my room for more work.

I glanced at the stack of enchanted protest signs. I’d finished most of the enchantments for those, but I needed help from someone with perception mana to handle the sound-enhancement parts, and everyone I knew with that mana type in the quantities I needed was busy.

Regretfully, that meant working on charging the Jaden Box. It was about the furthest thing from what I wanted to do, but I’d promised Keras I’d work on it. I didn’t agree to spend all my mana on it, but I was dedicating a bit of time and mana to charging it every day, making incremental progress toward refilling it.

With the knowledge of which rune to charge, the process was actually very simple. I poured most of my remaining mana from my right hand into that rune, winced at the sudden spike in pain, then exhaled heavily.

Done with that for the day.

I took a brief break.

I briefly went and asked Keras if he thought he could copy the Jaden Box’s abilities, given that he’d been able to copy powers from objects in the past.

“Not quickly,” he told me. “Not without destroying it, anyway. Most of my item absorbing ability comes along with gradually dealing damage to the object. I might be able to learn how to use the abilities without hurting the box eventually, but the time it would take would be prohibitive. Years, probably, especially given that one of the critical dominions it uses — travel — is on the other side of the dominion spectrum from some of my own main ones. It’s not a viable solution.”

I sighed at that, then got back to work on other projects.

Under ideal conditions, it took me about an hour to get my whole mana supply back in a mana rich location like Derek’s house…but as I’d learned painfully in the previous year, just repeatedly burning through my whole mana pool several times in a day was a terrible idea. The pain in my hand was fading almost immediately due to the regeneration function on my silver phoenix sigil, but I knew that wasn’t actually fixing any damage to my mana structures. I could burn through my mana multiple times in a day safely, but longer breaks were better, and I tried to limit myself to two uses of my mana pool per day.

I was getting better about using both attunements equally, too. I’d already used most of the mana from my Enchanter attunement to finish the necklace, though, so both of my attunements needed rest.

I got some water, then sat down with a pen and paper to update my “To Do” list.

Yes, it’s a real list. Don’t laugh at me.

I crossed off the necklaces. That felt good. Unfortunately, the list had dozens of other items left, only some of which were related to enchanting.

…And I was about to add more.

Most of my existing enchanting projects on the list were either about survival (like the necklaces and home improvements had been) or long-term efficiency. The latter category included things like mana batteries for all the base mana types I hadn’t covered yet (since I’d been forced to delay finishing those to prioritize the message necklaces), a better stamping rod, automated mana crystal generation items, automated liquid mana generation items, exercise enchantments, and my null contract items (which were a subcategory of exercise enchantments, but more specialized).

These were all useful, but I risked falling into a trap of working on efficiency to the extent that I never actually builtanything else. So, that day, I wanted to work on expanding my goals list to include a couple new categories.

First, things that were immediately useful to me. Things like better shield sigils technically fell into this category, but I wanted things that would help me be more proactive, rather than just defensive items. To begin with, I wanted an updated demi-gauntlet, as well as an improved ring of jumping.

Next, I created a list for gifts. I was already giving items to my friends, but most of them were standardized — things like the improved shield sigils and necklaces. I’d made some specialized gifts for each person the first year, but not recently. I planned to amend that. It was my role as an Enchanter to help supplement everyone’s abilities and I could do that best if I built gifts that were role-specific.

After that, enchantments for profit. I wasn’t hugely interested in working on these, but making money would help me buy materials for better equipment for my other projects, so it was a necessity to spend at least some time on this. There was a chance for profitability with patenting sub-glyphs, but I didn’t expect that to pay any dividends in the near future, and it also felt…well, kind of awful, honestly. Trying to get ahead of Farren Labs in case they were up to doing something nefarious with the Arbiter attunement was one thing, but I didn’t like the idea of making that type of thing the foundation of my income.

I was much more interested in directly manufacturing things that might be useful to people — things like my mana regeneration items, which were extraordinarily useful and couldn’t generally be made by anyone prior to Citrine-level. Making more of those was easy…the difficulty would be proving that they didn’t cause any sort of poisoning. While I could publicly disclose my Arbiter attunement if I chose, there was no easy way for most attuned to know that the mana in the item was pure just from looking at the item itself. Someone with mental mana could analyze it with anappropriate spell, but the necessity for that analysis made selling mana regeneration items in bulk a challenge. Direct sales were much more possible, but I didn’t have the time, energy, or inclination to go around trying to market my bracers to people.

Maybe I could manufacture some and see if Lars would be willing to sell them at the Climber’s Court for a cut?I put that idea on my list.

Beyond that, I wrote down a few other basic items that I thought might be easy to sell. Improved shield sigils were easy to make, but there were plenty of other models already out there. The same was true for dueling canes.

Maybe voice activated teleportation items, like my circlet? Return bells are ubiquitous, but I don’t see a lot of variations in design, aside from jump bells. I’m sure there are other voice activated ones out there, but if they’re not widespread…yeah, that’s another good potential option.

I wrote that down, along with a few other potential goods to sell, then kept going to my scariest — and most interesting — project plan.

With my education from Farren Labs, I understood the inner workings of attunements better than many Enchanters, even those that had already graduated. While your average Enchanter could learn the spells necessary to look at sub-glyphs and the language, they couldn’t do much with that knowledge on their own. Not directly, at least.

There were a whole class of items designed based on the same principles of attunements — items with dynamic runes. Dynamic runes are designed to contain sub-glyph functions. Essentially, someone can “write” the functions of a dynamic rune, then charge the rune with mana to serve those functions. Advanced Enchanters often use dynamic runes as a means to create effects outside the scope of their knowledge of pre-existing runes.

I had some interest in simply exploring my own dynamic rune designs, but my particular line of research was gearedtoward something that other Enchanters couldn’t dabble in as easily as I could.

I could make enchantments that modified attunement functions.

It’s a simple concept, but with barriers to entry for your average Enchanter. Your ordinary Enchanter didn’t have access to the resources I did for learning to read sub-glyphs, nor the expanded access to looking at the inner workings of attunements that I gained as an Arbiter.

Beyond that, most items couldn’t interface with attunements directly. Much like ordinary Enchanters couldn’t tinker with attunements, ordinary items were blocked from modifying attunement functionality by anti-tampering functions. Ordinary Enchanters had workarounds for this — they could, for example, create an item that was designed to detect when an attunement did something, then have the item trigger an effect based on that. Similarly, ordinary Enchanters could also make items that created effects in advance that an attuned could interact with using their attunement, like how one of my earliest items for Sera provided extra mana for Sera to use.

…But I didn’t need to use those workarounds. Not necessarily. If I had the inclination, I could create items with the functions of the Arbiter attunement to bypass the anti- tampering functions of attunements, allowing an item to directly modify how an attunement worked.

This was probably the type of thing that would be considered some sort of super-heresy if I wasn’t an Arbiter. But since I was, I was pretty sure I could get away with it… and honestly, most people aside from the Anabelle Farrens and Warren Constantines of the world wouldn’t even be able to tell what I was doing.

Now, creating items that interfaced directly with attunements had clear dangers — it would be easy to break something critical — but the most relevant part for me was that  those  dangers  were  comparatively  smaller  thanactually	modifying		an	attunement	directly.	If	something went critically wrong with an attunement modifying item, but in a way that wasn’t immediately fatal, the item could simply be turned off, moved, or even destroyed if needed. In theory, this would allow the attunement to return to normal. If I broke an attunement by directly altering the sub- glyphs there were a number of circumstances in which that wouldn’t necessarily be immediately fixable. For example, if I modified one of my own attunements significantly enough, it was possible that I could stop the attunement from working		entirely,	preventing	me		from	making	futurealterations and fixing the problem.

This was also an issue for modifying the attunements of others. If, for example, Patrick asked me to upgrade his attunement in some way, and I made a mistake that didn’t show up immediately — say, something that caused a minor mana leak that created gradual scarring — Patrick would have to find me to fix it once he realized the problem had arisen. And if I was off in a spire, or in a separate war game for final exams, or otherwise indisposed, it could take days or longer for me to come back for a fix. That could be dangerous. If I made him an item that enhanced his attunement that had a problem, however…he could just take it off.

Potential heresy aside, it was a much safer bet. At least in the sense of “less likely to detonate friends and family”.

There was another risk in that style of enchantment, though. If people found out I could make those sorts of enchantments…well, Farren Labs wouldn’t be the only ones that wanted me to work for them. And not everyone was going to be offering a comprehensive benefits package. It was eminently plausible I could be immediately taken out of Lorian Heights to be pressed into early military service, for example, and forced to create attunement-augmenting items for the military.

That wasn’t ideal.

So, if I did want to make items that tinkered with attunement functions…I’d have to be cautious about it. Those definitely weren’t going on the “sell at the Climber’s Court” list. Not immediately, anyway.

Finally, I could also make items that emulated attunement functions, rather than modifying them. This might sound fairly basic, but every attunement has their so- called “unique” functions that aren’t actually unique, but remain extremely useful. If I got a good enough look at the sub-glyphs of any given attunement, I could theoretically copy it to an item…assuming I understood all the components well enough, had someone or something to provide the right kinds of mana to charge it, and could find materials with the appropriate capacity.

This last category included things like my “null contract items”, which were designed to emulate a part of the Summoner or Soulblade attunements, but it was possible to go much broader. One of the absolute simplest things I could make was also among the most potentially impactful—I could make items that let other people enchant items without an Enchanter attunement. At least, I thought I could. I hadn’t tested it, nor had I extensively researched how that particular function of the Enchanter attunement worked.

It was somewhat ironic that the function that defined my career as an attuned was one of the ones I knew the least about, at least in terms of the inner workings and sub- glyphs that made it possible. I’d glanced some of it over, but it was much more complex than I’d anticipated — it wasn’t just about using transference mana to push energy into something (although that was certainly a component of it).

I intended to research that in more detail eventually, but for the moment, I had several projects on my agenda that had more immediate applications. After my list-writing break, I spent a couple hours working on etching dynamicrunes into rings. The small size of a ring meant that it didn’t have a large mana capacity, but I wasn’t planning to use these for anything hugely mana intensive. Instead, they’d be used as test cases for small-scale attunement-altering enchantments.

If I could get them to work…there would be a whole new world of potential ahead of me.

