CHAPTER XXI – FAMILY FAULTS

I held Patrick silently, extending my shroud over both of us and remaining at the ready in case further threats emerged.

I…wasn’t good at comforting people, but I did what I could to just be there and support him. Patrick deserved that much and more.

Keras interrogated the absolutely terrified figures he’d pinned to the walls. His fervor had diminished after Mara had grabbed him, but only enough to push him back into a state of dangerous calm. I no longer had to worry about Keras obliterating us by accident, at least, but his prisoners…well, they were lucky we’d arrived when we had.

We’d seen a hint of another Keras in those moments just after we arrived. The Keras that we’d been warned about by Tavare — and by Keras himself.

The side of Selyrian that he himself had always feared. Mara and I might not have arrived in time to help Patrick,but…if we hadn’t been there, I don’t know if there would have been prisoners remaining to question.

And, perhaps more importantly, I don’t know if anyone would have been able to save Keras from himself.

I’d never seen him that angry before. Not even when he’d saved us from Saffron.

I had to sincerely hope that I’d never see that side of him again.

It wasn’t long before Derek Hartigan arrived on the scene. He wasn’t alone. He had several masked figures behind him, all wearing long coats. Blackstone Bandits, obviously.

I wasn’t even slightly surprised to hear him giving them orders. He had a brief whispered exchange with Keras, then one of the Blackstones began teleporting the captured Sons of Valia off somewhere, one at a time.

I	didn’t	notice	Jin	until	he	knelt	next	to	us…in	full Blackstone garb, because of course he was. “Are you okay?”

I nodded to him. “We will be. Patrick isn’t ready to talk yet.”

“Do you need anything?” Jin asked.

I was a little surprised by the question. My initial instinct was to refuse, but…it was really more about what Patrick needed. “Water. And keep the people outside of our team away. Patrick will let us know when he’s ready to talk.”

Jin gave a curt nod and left to follow my instructions. He returned with water and, from the lack of disruptions, must have passed on my requests to others as well.

We weren’t disturbed until Sera arrived and sat down to hug Patrick from behind. We sat together for a while, with Mara and Jin watching over us, while Keras and Derek debated something in the background.

I paid little attention to anything else until Jin finally spoke again. “I know you asked not to be bothered, but there’s a healer.”

I glanced upward to see Sheridan Theas whispering with Keras and Derek. Nodding to Jin, I reached over to Patrick.

“Hey. I’m sorry, but…Deni is here, and you’ve got more wounds than I can take care of. Are you okay enough for them to look you over?”

A weak nod.

I waved Sheridan over.

“Be careful, he’s…not doing well.”

“He’s in shock. That’s to be expected. I’ll need a bit of space to work, but you can hold his uninjured hand.” Sheridan explained in a business-like tone.

I nodded, releasing Patrick and wincing as he whimpered, then shifted to taking his hand while Sheridan worked.

Time passed. Derek vanished at some point, presumably to deal with the prisoners. Keras stayed, looking extremely tense. At some point, Elora Theas showed up — not inBlackstone gear, just in what looked like an ordinary dress— and began a whispered conversation with him.

Eventually, Sheridan gave me a nod. “His cuts will heal just fine. He’s concussed, though, and you may need to keep an eye on him for a few days. As for what happened… some events take more than magic to heal. I’m sure you know what I mean.”

I nodded in return. I didn’t know how much Sheridan knew about my past, but… “Thank you for helping us.”

“Believe me, in cases like this I wish I could do more. You get me any time if his condition worsens in any way. No charge, this is personal.”

“Thank you.”

Sheridan nodded again, then headed off to confer with their sibling and Keras.

Our team remained in a tight cluster around Patrick until he finally spoke. “…I…I want to go home.”

We gently lifted him from the ground and, arm in-arm, walked home.

***We took shifts watching over Patrick for the rest of the day. As a result of the concussion, Sheridan ordered us to keep him awake for a while, so we took turns simply spending time with him and keeping his mind on other things.

His mood remained somber throughout the day, but that was to be expected.

A picture emerged as I gradually heard things from others throughout the day. Patrick had been on his way to meet with Cecily for dinner when he’d heard what sounded like a child scream from the alley. A simple sound spell, but Patrick didn’t even think about the possibility that it might be a trap — he just acted.

When the Sons of Valia appeared out of nowhere, he reacted with admirable speed, sending the message — before  their  leader  snapped  his  necklace  and  someonesmashed him on the back of the head. He’d remained conscious and tried to fight, but he’d been overwhelmed and disarmed almost immediately.

Then Keras had arrived and…well, in some ways, I think that had scared Patrick almost as much as being injured.

Keras was usually a gentle man, almost to a fault. But seeing Patrick down on the ground, bleeding, and Bright Reflection lying on the ground…I didn’t think he’d killed any of them. I hadn’t asked. I wasn’t sure I wanted to know the answer.

It hadn’t taken much to sort out the reason for the attack. Patrick was a commoner that was rapidly increasing in both power and notoriety. He was also the personal apprentice to Chancellor Meltlake, the person that had upended the system that the Sons of Valia were so attached to.

In retrospect, Patrick was such an obvious target that we’d been foolish not to watch out for him more directly. Almost as obvious as Mara, really. As a commoner near the top of the class, she was also at significant risk, and we hadn’t looked out for her, either.

Sera reassured me that the necklace that I’d built had probably saved Patrick’s life — or, at the very least, his attunement. One of the Sons of Valia had been carrying an enchanted blade designed for cutting through bone — and with the cut on Patrick’s arm, I suspected they’d been just about to remove it when Keras had arrived.

Keras had snapped the sword to pieces, but we picked up the remains. Not to repair the horrible thing, but because it might be possible to use it to track the Enchanter who had made it. It was possible that the weapon was simply from a spire, of course, or otherwise unrelated — but it was another possible lead.

Derek was taking the lead on interrogating the prisoners for further information. He didn’t say anything of the kind, but I think he was actually happy about the encounter. Froma practical standpoint, no one had been killed and Patrick hadn’t been permanently injured, at least not in any way that could be easily seen…and the leader of the attackers was an Emerald. There was no way that they had more than a handful of Emerald-level members, so presumably, that was a major victory.

…It certainly didn’t feel like one.

I felt a bit heartened when Chancellor Meltlake arrived to visit, looking every bit as furious as the rest of us were feeling. If her presence provided any encouragement, however, her conversation with Derek only made me angrier.

“How is he?” She asked.

“Terrified. What do you expect?” Derek leaned against a nearby wall, hands balled into fists. “He’s lucky he survived at all. I need you to give me more names.”

“I will when the right time—”

Derek slammed a fist into the wall behind him, leaving a series of cracks. “We can’t wait on the right time, Auntie. We need to start moving on leadership, shut them down from the top.”

Chancellor Meltlake grimaced. “It’s not so simple as that. The Sons of Valia aren’t just representing frustrated high houses — they have deep ties to the city guard and the military. Not to mention the banks.”

“One particular bank, you mean. Wouldn’t it serve our interests if a few Haven Securities buildings happened to go up in flames?”

“Don’t be a child. We both know that if you just start torching buildings, it’s the poor that will pay the cost.”

“Names, then. Some people just need to disappear—” “We’re not assassins, Derek.”

“Well, then our predecessors picked a poor name to inspire a certain organization, didn’t we?” Derek gave a bitter laugh. “And you’re letting our oppressors dictate the terms of battle.”

“You’re not exactly one of the oppressed, Derek. Mara and Patrick might be able to make that claim, but not you. You’re in a position of extreme privilege playing at heroism.”

He folded his arms. “Sure, sure. Who do you think I learned that from?”

Meltlake grimaced. “I won’t deny that I had a colorful youth. And I won’t disagree with you playing a role in this — I’m grateful that you helped Patrick when I failed him.”

“You’re missing the point, Auntie. I didn’t save him. I wouldn’t have gotten there in time. Keras did — and he’s not going to be here much longer. The next time one of the kids get isolated, they might not have a demigod handy to run to their rescue. And with how things are escalating, I’m not sure I’ll be able to handle these ambushes myself forever, either. We need to act while we can, before things get worse.”

“You clearly already have been, regardless of my instructions. Have you considered that this might have been a reprisal for what you and Selyrian have been up to?”

Derek scoffed. “They’ve been targeting commoners all over the place. Your apprentice was an obvious target. If you had half a care, you would have put a bodyguard on him ages ago.”

Meltlake winced, clearly taken aback by that. “…They’re everywhere, Derek. I thought he’d be safe with you.”

“Oh, he will be. The moment you give me the names I need.”

“I don’t have them. You have better information than I do these days. I have suspicions, but I haven’t had time to vet them.”

“I can handle that, if you’d give me something to work with.”

“Haven’t you been able to get anything from your prisoners?”

“Sure, bits and pieces. But they’re playing the same tune as the Orchestra does, even if it’s a bit off-key. False names,fake orders placed on the attackers, complex codes designed to waste our time decrypting them. Some of the attackers even showed signs of memory tampering. We have people working on it, but it’s going to take time to find anything of substance. The longer we wait, the more bodies are going to pile up. If you even have suspicions about who is running things, share them. It could help give us a clearer direction.”

Meltlake shook her head. “You’re too brash. You need to be circumspect. Our enemies are entrenched. A straight-line charge would be folly.”

“We don’t have time for a siege,” Derek spat. “The more we wait, the more their influence spreads. Misinformation is everywhere. Half the newspapers in the city are spouting Sons of Valia rhetoric. Did you know that they’re saying you were born in Caelford? How about that you have monster blood?”

“Obvious propaganda. I can trace a clear line of descent from the original members of House Hartigan that landed here in the Exodus.”

“Well, they’re saying that since you have dark skin,” he gestured, “you’re clearly a fake.”

Meltlake wrinkled her brow. “That’s nonsense. Blake Hartigan himself was black-skinned. We know he had some sort of body-switching or shapechanging magic, but his people originally hailed from Terisgard, on the southern side of Mythralis. It’s well-documented.”

“The truth is, at the moment, less important than the necessity of those in power to maintain their power by any means necessary. You can’t rely on everyone to find reliable sources to research. The Sons of Valia aren’t playing fair, Auntie, and taking the moral high road is rarely a strategic advantage.”

Meltlake sighed deeply, covering her eyes in her hands. “…I’ll consider your proposal. For now, I owe my apprentice a visit.”

Derek looked like he had more to say, but he stopped himself. “…He’s this way.”

I waited for Meltlake to finish her own visit, reading in my own room for a while and trying to banish dark thoughts from my mind. It didn’t work.

…Sons of Valia in the military? In the city guard?Mara had implied with one of her quips that they were involved with the prison system, but it hadn’t really sunk into my mind. I suppose I’d just thought of her earlier comments as bitter hyperbole, or thought that maybe there had just been a few bad people among the good. Could the Sons of Valia really be represented so heavily in the leadership of those organizations that someone as powerful as Meltlake would hesitate to strike against them?And who could we even turn to, if that was true?I considered briefly if the Soaring Wings might be an option, dismissed the idea. They were an international organization. They rarely got involved in local politics. The Soaring Wings occasionally helped out with things related to education, but they had a non-intervention policy for internal government affairs. Presumably, some of their members would be sympathetic, but the organization as a whole couldn’t get involved directly.

I wasn’t exactly thrilled with Derek’s approach, either — vigilantes going after wealthy nobles sounded like a recipe for reprisals, at a minimum. But what alternative did we have?I didn’t have an answer to that.

After Meltlake departed for the night, I went back to visit Patrick. I did what I could to help support him until I was absolutely exhausted and Patrick himself convinced me to let Sera take over for a shift.

Finally, barely suppressing tears of my own frustration, I retired to my own bedroom for the night.

***I was so absolutely done with humanity that I could do little more than bitterly laugh when I saw that a letter had been slipped under my door stamped with a familiar seal.

Oh, good, Mother decided to write a letter. Maybe you’ll have some helpful advice this time, like “avoid murderous psychopaths”. Your support during difficult times is always cherished.

I shook my head and broke the wax seal with my fingers, too lazy to bother with a letter opener.

Dear Corin,You must cease this nonsense at once.

I paused, re-reading the line, my mind spinning.

…She just found out about the duel, didn’t she? And this is her response? Really?I almost stopped reading right there, but after a moment of trembling and deep breaths, I continued.

Your father, like it or not, is the lord of your house. If you have caused him offense, it is your responsibility—I tore the letter in half.

Nope.

…Then, after several moments of absolute fury, I reassembled the bits of the remaining pieces to see if she’d written anything about coming home.

…I found nothing of the sort. No updates on her own situation. Just that she was busy on “urgent business”. Of course she was.

I hated myself for even bothering to look. For my hesitancy, for wanting to see her, for wanting to even bother with someone who would take the side of my abuser without even asking me for context.

…But she had no indication of what he’d been doing, did she? My previous letter had been purposefully vague, citing “mistreatment”, but without any relevant details.

That didn’t forgive her approach, or her absence, but…if I didn’t tell her, how could I expect her to understand?I couldn’t put pen to page for something like that. Not only was the admission of abuse too difficult in a general sense, if someone intercepted the letter, the scandal would be more than I wanted to deal with. Moreover, if Mother did take a letter with an accusation of abuse seriously, it could end up as some kind of court document — and I didn’t want things to resolve through some kind of lengthy judicial process.

I was going to settle things with Father myself.

I set pen to page regardless, just to give Mother the courtesy she deserved in the form of a reply.

Dear Mother,If you have taken an interest in my duel with Father, you’re welcome to attend. I will ensure my second sends you the date and location once they are established.

Love, Corin***After finishing that, I checked to see if I could find any responses from Tristan in Trials of Judgment. I found nothing new.

I couldn’t imagine that he was too busy to write to me while he was stuck in isolation. From that, I assumed he’d either chosen not to reply, or that he simply couldn’t. Perhaps the magic of the books had failed as a result of the tower being sealed, as we’d speculated earlier. Perhaps he was imprisoned, or… maybe he was dead.

That was an unpleasant thought, but it was pretty realistic. We’d teleported Mizuchi away, but if she was hunting him, I couldn’t imagine that she’d give up becauseof a mild inconvenience. True, he was in a visage-sealed wing now, but there had to be workarounds for that.

He’d have to know that, too. Could he have fled to another location?Perhaps the visage’s chamber had teleportation functions? Leaving the spires would have triggered his brand, but maybe he’d found a solution to that — or perhaps it wouldn’t activate if he simply transported himself to another spire.

I needed more information, but I had precious few resources to gather it. The spire remained sealed. That implied that whatever was going on inside hadn’t definitively concluded, at least. And there had been no obvious return for Tenjin.

The most likely person to know anything about the current situation was Katashi himself.

Once again, I considered trying to enter the Serpent Spire through the Arbiter’s Gate. If I did, perhaps I could find Katashi inside…but I had no guarantee he was even in there. And if he wasn’t, I’d be wasting my single token to enter the spire.

I had no indication that the Arbiter’s Gate connected with other parts of the spire, so I wasn’t sure if I could use that route to explore further. Given the risk that Mizuchi would realize I was in the spire once I appeared, going in there without a solid plan seemed both dangerous and wasteful.

I checked with Cecily. She hadn’t heard anything new either. That left me with little left to pursue.

So, for the moment…Tristan would have to wait a little longer.

I wrote him another letter, then got to sleep. I had work to do in the morning.

If I wanted to rescue Tristan someday, I needed a proper plan — and I knew what the next step needed to be.

