CHAPTER XXVIII – WEARING THE GLOVE

There were no easy answers to things like “how much should I upend Kaldwyn’s society with my inventions”.

There was, however, something very simple that I needed to do — something I’d been neglecting for too long.

It was with that in mind that I knocked on a door early the next morning.

Patrick opened it almost immediately, without even asking who was there. That in itself showed a significant difference between us, one that was highlighted further by his easy smile that seemed to come automatically as soon as he saw me.

Smiling had never been easy for me, even before everything that happened. Still, I forced that mask into place with practice, even if joy wasn’t exactly the right representation for my mood.

“Good morning, Corin! Did you need something?”

The fact that he was immediately asking if I needed something was another good illustration of who he was. Ordinarily, he would have probably been right — I rarely would have visited anyone first thing in the morning otherwise.

But I’d sought him out for a reason. “I…can I come in?” “Oh, of course! Sure!” He waved me into the room andpulled out a chair from his desk for me. I sat down. “Thanks.” I stumbled over words that I’d already plannedin my head. “Uh, so, look. There’s something I’ve been meaning to talk about.”

“That sounds serious.” He gave a little laugh. “Should I be worried?”

I shook my head. “No, nothing like that. It’s more of an apology.”

“Apology? Why?” He blinked innocently.

I sighed. “…When you first asked to be my retainer, I didn’t treat that with the seriousness it deserved. It took Sera pointing it out to make me understand that you’d made a life-altering choice to enter into the service of our house…and even with that knowledge, I’ve barely acknowledged it. So, first and foremost…thank you, Patrick. Thank you for your loyalty and dedication. And thank you for…trying to be a friend, even when I wasn’t ready for one. Or deserving of one.”

“Oh, come on. You’re going to make me blush.” He laughed. “For what it’s worth, Corin, I get it. You’ve been through a very difficult few years. Several years, really. You don’t need to say anything…and you have reached out, in your own way. You make things for me. For all of us. Bright Reflection…I’ve said this before, but I’ve never been given a more meaningful gift. I mean, uh, aside from the glove, maybe.”

I shook my head. “You don’t need to append that last part to it. I know the sword was more important…and that is, in some respects, why I’m here. I didn’t treat giving you my glove with the sincerity that it deserved. And so, I’d like to offer you a better one.”

“A better…glove?” He raised an eyebrow. “I’m not sure I understand.”

I slipped the Null Contract Gauntlet off my hand. “This represents the current pinnacle of my work. The first enchanted item that I could consider truly of my own design. I’m still borrowing heavily from the work of my predecessors, and from the designs of attunements themselves, but…the core concept here, the work…it’s the purest representation of me that I’ve been able to forge. As such, it has great meaning to me, even beyond the physical value that it offers…and for that reason, I’d like you to have it.”

“Corin…that’s…” He looked at the gauntlet. “Are you sure? I’ve seen you wearing that. I know what you saidabout your mana levels at the end of the week. That’s helping you advance faster. Much faster.”

“Exactly.” I nodded. “In order for giving you the glove to mean something, it has to mean that I’m willing to make you a priority and acknowledge what you do for me. That I trust you and value you.”

“But…you shouldn’t have to sacrifice something you need for that.”

“On the contrary, I think that’s exactly why I need to do this. It’s the only way to thank you appropriately.”

“…You’re sure?”

I nodded. “Please, accept this.”

“Then…if you’re certain…” He took the demi-gauntlet with great hesitation, then slipped off my old glove…which he was already wearing, of course. And he put the new one on in its place. “Thank you, Corin. This means a lot to me.”

“It means a lot to me that you accepted. Thank you, Patrick.” I gave him a weak smile. One that was, perhaps, a bit more genuine than the mask I’d worn when he’d opened the door.

“…So, do you need any help making yourself a new one?I assume you’re getting started right away.”

I coughed. “…Am I really that predictable?”

Patrick laughed. “I’m your retainer. Knowing your mind is a part of my job.”

My retainer.

In that moment, it felt a little more real. “Let’s get to work.”

