CHAPTER XXXVIII – SOMETHING BORROWED

It was a strange thing to allow someone else to control my body.

I explained the situation to the others briefly, as planned, then followed through on my deal — but it didn’t go quite like I’d expected.

…Mostly, the spirit of the Tyrant in Gold didn’t go on any sort of berserker rampage or immediately try to conquer the planet.

Instead, while I watched through a window created within the castle garden that accessed my own eyes and ears, the tyrant wandered around the house and…touched things. And sniffed things. And ate things. And drank things.

…I’d only offered him a few minutes, but at sensing the strange spirit’s pleasure at simply sensing the outside world, I telepathically offered him a longer stay. He accepted, manifesting a body in the spiritual space again to discuss further, then continued to explore for a full hour.

As strange as it was, I found the process of sitting in the spiritual space relaxing…at least at first.

It was as the half-hour mark approached that I began to feel the first itches of claustrophobia…a fear that didn’t change as I began to alter and expand the space through the power of my mind.

…I still didn’t force my way back to controlling my own body, but as the feeling of tightness in the space worsened, I began to understand what I was condemning the spirit to for every hour in which he was not in control.

And with that, I knew I eventually would need a better, more permanent solution.

For the moment, though…I felt the spirit’s gratitude when he returned to the space at the hour mark, then willingly relinquished control of my own body back to me.

And I prepared to give them something else.

“You have completed your side of our initial bargain, Corin Cadence.” The spirit spoke to me. “And I will honor my own. Your body is returned unharmed.”

“Thank you. I have no desire to fight you further.”

“I cannot say the same…but for now, so long as you provide me with similar opportunities regularly…I will restrain myself to the extent that I can.”

“That’s all I can ask. In the meantime, I have something else to offer you, should you wish it.”

“I am not one to deny proper tribute. Tell me, what do you wish to offer?”

I smiled. “The chance to name yourself.”

The tyrant seemed to consider that. “…A worthy opportunity, and one you are wise to realize. However…I am not yet ready.”

“Can I offer you a temporary name, then, perhaps?”

The tyrant smiled. “I understand. A ploy on your part to begin to distance me from my identity as a fragment of the Tyrant in Gold. No. Even if it is to be a temporary name…I will choose.”

“Then, what should I call you for now?”

The tyrant contemplated for a moment, then a smile slid across their face.

“You may call me Therin…Therin Thorn. I am both a part of her and her killer, after all.”

***I settled back into control of my body shortly after that. It was a surprisingly strange sensation to feel my own skin and bones after having been in that spiritual space.

The others were around me, watching with concern. “I’m back.”

“We’ll see about that.” Sera turned to Researcher. “Start the tests.”

I sighed and rolled my eyes.

I was pleased by the concern, of course, but going through a gauntlet of magical tests was always exhausting.

When my friends were mostly convinced that I was back in my own body, I explained the situation further.

“You handled that well. It’s not dissimilar from some Soulblade arrangements,” Derek explained.

I blinked. “Wait, really?”

“Absolutely. It should be codified more clearly — you’re going to need to study contract magic further, and we’re going to have to figure out how to bind this ‘Thorn’ to them properly — but yes. There’s plenty of precedent for a spirit sharing a body as part of a contract. Incorporeal spirits often want to have a chance to interact with the physical world and contracts are one of the few ways they can do that.”

“Summoners can do the same, but we’re not as good at it as Soulblades,” Sera noted. “Soulblades get direct access to spirit magic, which most Summoners can’t utilize directly unless they end up with a weird specialization mark or learn how to cobble it together from their base mana types. Anyway, I can help teach you about the necessary steps for building a formal agreement…presuming Thorn will agree to it.”

“I’d be grateful for that, thank you. Why are you just using ‘Thorn’, though? They gave a longer name.”

“You don’t want to get used to calling your sword ‘Therin’ in public. The name is obscure, but it’s going to raise serious questions for anyone who is aware of Selys-Lyann’s history…or the goddess herself,” Derek explained. “You’re getting into dangerous territory by making any kind of alliance with an entity that identifies themselves as being related to the tyrant in any capacity. Adding Therin on top of that makes things even muddier. You need to keep this very, very closely guarded.”

I groaned at that. I wasn’t thrilled with having yet another secret like this, but I agreed with the logic behind it. I’d have to ask Therin about their comfort level with being simply called “Thorn” at some point or if there was some superior alternative.

“What types of mana did you negotiate for in the contract?” Sera asked.

“Spirit,” I answered immediately. “I can already get some from my gauntlet, but it’s minimal, and compounding with multiple sources of a mana type can be extremely efficient for mana growth. If I can build up a sufficient pool of spirit mana, I should be able to make further spirit bonds without needing a battery.”

“Ah, I see your logic. The bond itself would lend you a little bit of spirit mana, but an actual contract for it should supply the mana much faster.” Derek nodded in appreciation. “I approve. You may want to consider expanding the contract into other mana types as well. Thorn isn’t in much of a position to refuse anything you ask for.”

“That’s true, but I’m not sure I want to flood my body with several new mana types at once, even if I could. That would slow my acclimation process. I’d rather get a lot of one mana type than a little bit of several.”

“Reasonable, although ice mana would improve our synergy,” Sera noted. “Something to think about for the future.”

I nodded in agreement.

For the moment, I was less worried about what the contract was granting me and more worried about the contract’s limitations.

Even with a contract…Thorn had been clear enough that it wasn’t in their nature to sit idly.

Someday, I expected the sword to strike again and try to claim my body on a more permanent basis. A contract might slow that, but some ambitions were not so easily curtailed.

Strangely, I wasn’t worried.

When Thorn struck again, I would be ready.

