CHAPTER XXXII – NO RELIEF TO BE FOUND

The next few hours were mostly confined to debriefing and recovery rooms. After our full team was deemed medically fit, we packed up and headed back home.

Everyone felt pretty good about how the test had gone.

Jin was looking oddly distant, but pleased.

He kept the Soulbrand replica, of course. Patrick instructed him that they’d have to pick a new name for it at some point, much like Bright Reflection.

Mara had a tearful goodbye with Keras number two, who bequeathed her a phantasmal copy of Dragon’s Damsel before he was unsummoned when Sera dismissed her copy of the Transcendence Gateway Crystal. That raised a number of questions for me about the mechanics of summoning entities that could summon other entities and items, but I was frankly too exhausted to ask them.

I chatted with my friends for the first part of the journey, but I was too tired to maintain it for long. I fell asleep to the comforting thrum of the train, waking up only briefly to stumble the rest of the way from the train station back to home.

I hit the bed and didn’t wake up for a long, long time.

***I was famished when I woke up and more than a little regretful about falling asleep in my dirty clothes. I showered, ate, and washed all of the things.

Then, after that, I made a desperate and unsuccessful attempt to relax.

Finishing my classes for the semester was a huge relief, but one that felt like it had come a bit too soon. The first semester being so much shorter than the second was jarring, but I supposed it made sense if they wanted our second semester to match up with when the new first-years arrived.

If any new first-years arrived.

As far as I knew, the Serpent Spire was still closed. That meant no Judgments, which meant no new students…unless they were taking Judgments at foreign spires. I supposed it was likely that deals were being made to get a larger number of students of eligible age access to other spires, but I hadn’t really looked into it. It was probably the sort of thing I should have been interested in, given how it was tied to the whole situation with Tenjin and Katashi, but…I just couldn’t bring myself to look into it further. I had too many items on my agenda already and it was still growing without remorse.

I couldn’t ignore the situation with Tenjin indefinitely — it involved Tristan, after all. But I wasn’t sure if trying to pry into it directly at the moment was wise, either. There was a level of temptation to try my token on the local Arbiter’s Gate to see if I could get inside, but even if I could, what would I actually be able to accomplish?I wasn’t ready to face the spire again. Not yet.

First, I had things I needed to learn. And if I wanted to continue to do so without being sent off to the military, that meant continuing on course to my graduation.

I felt the usual trepidation when I opened the letter containing my grades for the year, even knowing some of them in advance. There was still enough ambiguity in my finals that I didn’t know exactly where my total score would fall.

Still, I ripped the letter open and looked at it as soon as I had a chance. It wasn’t the sort of thing where waiting would make me feel any better.

Cadence, Corin (Enchanter) Second YearOverall Class Ranking: 97/4912 Phoenix Division Rank: 18/854 Current Point Total: 834Class Scores:Physical Combat — 86 (Rank A-)Attunement Optimization — 78 (Rank B+) 	Intermediate Enchanting — 0 (Rank n/a)Advanced Enchanting — 70 (Rank B)Intermediate Mana Manipulation — 150 (Rank SSS) 	Alternate Magic Sources — 89 (Rank A-)Foreign Attunements and You — 74 (Rank B) 	Dueling — 84 (Rank A-)Semester Final Examination — 224 (Rank B+) 	Overall Grade: AI gawked at the scores. Compared to last year…well, I was on the right track.

If I graduated with a high enough score, I could apply to be a military climber, rather than being assigned to another branch for my four years of mandatory service. That had always been the plan. Of course, with everything else going on…I was still planning to push for good grades, and I wasn’t sure a military climbing position was still the right target.

With my abilities, a military enchantment position would be trivial to secure. But more than that…as an Arbiter, I could easily push for a diplomatic role.

Or, in all likelihood, skip military service entirely. Simply being an Arbiter might have been enough to argue that I was more valuable to Valia fulfilling that role on a broader scale, rather than in the military.

But I wasn’t sure if that was really what I wanted either.

I had some hard choices ahead of me, provided I was able to maintain my grades for the rest of the year. But for the moment…I had something more pressing to deal with.

The semester was over and I was due for a duel.

***It was funny to think that, in spite of fighting numerous opponents over the last year and a lifetime of training, I waspreparing for my very first formal duel.

It wasn’t comforting that it was against my own father. It was, however, more than a little ironic. I probably would have laughed if I could have distanced myself from it enough.

We’d made many of the arrangements over the course of the semester, at least in terms of scheduling the specific date, time, and location. By “we”, I mean that Patrick — as my second — had handled almost all of the formalities.

We still hadn’t settled certain other elements of the terms. Those would be determined in person. That wasn’t typical, but it wasn’t too far outside of the norm, either. There was a degree of analysis involved with selecting terms, since even seemingly innocuous elements could turn out to be bits of strategy.

Father treated every duel as if it started the moment it had been declared — if not before. Every word we exchanged, every bit of our public personas that we displayed before the duel began, could be seen as a strike or a feint.

I would have been a fool to ignore that knowledge, but I couldn’t afford to be too obvious with any actions I took. I relied heavily on intermediaries, some more clearly than others.

It was to that end that Sera and I sat down for a rare talk at the dining hall. I usually avoided it, but the crowds were fairly sparse, and with the duel approaching, I was varying my habits in a few critical ways.

“Father has engaged in several other duels throughout the semester, as you might have expected. No unusual deviations in his performance. No indications of new attunements or crystal marks. He’s been rotating his dueling cane more often than usual, though, rather than using the family cane. That might be indicative of a strategy for your duel, or it could simply represent adaptations to his other opponents.” Sera set a handful of crystals on the tablein front of me. “I’d prioritize these three in your studies, personally.” She slid those three closer to me. “They’re the most closely analogous to elements of your own style. One transference-heavy Wavewalker. One Shadow, which shows how he might counter void magic. And finally, one rare case of a multi-attuned Enchanter.”

I raised an eyebrow at the last one. “Think he picked that duel deliberately to send me a signal?”

“That’s possible. Then again, there might just be more multi-attuned than we were aware of growing up. They’re certainly over-represented in dueling circles, which skews the numbers. And at Father’s level, everyone looks for whatever advantages they can get.”

I nodded slowly. “I’ve been thinking about that. Have you seen Father without his gloves in any of the recent duels?”

Sera shook her head. “No, but that isn’t anything odd.

He’s a traditionalist.”

“Right, sure. But that does make it awfully convenient for him to hide something.”

“You think he’s a secret Emerald? Meh.” Sera shrugged. “I find it doubtful. Sure, it could be considered a military secret, and we see people like Derek suppressing their power in public…but I don’t think that’s his personality. If he hit Emerald, he’d want people to know.”

“I concur. But to compete in high-level dueling circles, he needs something. As a child, I thought it was just a combination of skill, pre-duel manipulation, and Grandpa Alaric’s cane. Maybe that’s all it is, but…” I shook my head. “We know a lot of high-level attuned now. They’re almost all hiding some kind of more extreme advantage.”

“I suspect you’re overthinking it. Father is probably Citrine-B or Citrine-A. He could be a needle’s width from Emerald and have nearly the same level of mana. And Alaric’s cane is a huge advantage in itself. If you’re looking for a secret, I’d look at the cane itself — he told us about how it helped the family in duels when we were growing up,but most of that was pure storytelling. Best I can tell, the primary function of the cane is conjuring duplicates whenever a Shaper makes a construct. That isn’t enough to swing most duels in any significant way. There’s probably something else to it.”

I nodded slowly. “Or the cane is just a prop and he has some other kind of advantage. Like a specialization.”

Sera looked a little surprised for a moment, then collected herself. “…That’s possible. A density specialization might present similarly to the acclaimed powers of the cane itself. If he’s had it since he was young, maybe the cane does something else entirely?”

“I wasn’t thinking he was faking the cane’s powers — more that a density specialization might give him other capabilities we haven’t seen. At least, not clearly. But yeah, that’s possible, too.” I sighed. “I’ll take a closer look at these. Can you do some research on the cane without looking suspicious?”

“I mean, I can, but I don’t think we’re going to find much. There aren’t any visible runes on it and the auras I’ve seen in recordings just show a green aura. Nothing elemental, nothing specialized. I don’t think I’d be able to figure out more without physically putting my hands on it…and somehow I doubt I’ll get a chance for that before the duel.”

I nodded at that. “Researcher might be able to figure something out?”

“Plausible. I’ll show her some crystals. Most spells don’t work through memories, but Researcher’s capabilities differ from ours. Maybe she can sort something out.”

“Okay, great. Now, I have a few different possible strategies I’ve been thinking about, depending on how the opening dialogues go…”

We talked for a long time, going over layers and layers of possibilities, before finally heading home. Not to sleep — not just yet.

If I wanted to make certain I survived the match, I had some enchanting to do.

