CHAPTER XXXIV – GLASS HOUSES

When Sheridan Theas finally called the duel over in my favor, Magnus Cadence didn’t move from the ground.

That was fine. He could stay on the dirt as long as he wanted to.

I turned away, half-expecting to have to dodge some kind of last-second sneak attack, but it never came. Instead, I calmly walked to Sheridan Theas and bowed. “You may need to check his mana levels to ensure that I didn’t do anything permanently deleterious. I read what I could beforehand, and I know we discussed it, but—”

“Put it out of your mind, Arbiter Corin.” The absence of the surname when Sheridan spoke was pointed and not without implication. “You owe that man nothing further. If he happens to have a problem with the mana mixture in his body, well…” Sheridan shook their head. “The terms of the duel were clear. He told you to do anything you could to defeat him. You fought fairly and you won. Now, I’ll do my job. You have one more thing left to attend to.”

I nodded, then leaned over and whispered. “Thank you.” “Get lost, you’re making me look unprofessional.”

Sheridan’s slight smile helped soothe my still-hammering heart. I tried not to smile and failed. Not just because of Deni, but because Patrick was absolutely roaring in the aftermath of my victory.

“Yeah! You got him, Corin!” Patrick pumped his fists. I nodded to him, then turned to where Sera was watching me from several paces away in utter silence.

I walked over to Patrick first, putting a hand on his shoulder. It wasn’t common for me to make such a physically affectionate gesture, but…he’d earned it. “Thank you. Thank you for being my second, and…for supporting me, and…for everything.”

I turned to Sera, my eyes narrowing. “And you…with me, now.”

Sera’s own eyes flashed. She looked for a moment like she might argue, then finally, as I turned away and marched down the halls to my old empty room, she stomped after me.

I slammed the door shut behind us, then pulled a set of anti-scrying and anti-sound rocks out of my dimensional bag.

Then, finally, I let my shoulders slump in relief. Sera laughed gleefully and opened her arms.

I looked at her for a moment, then sighed and said, “Fine, you’ve earned it.”

I pulled my sister in tight. “Thank you. I…I don’t know if I could have managed that without you.”

“I’m not sure what it says about our relationship that ‘pretend to be a traitor’ was the best way you could think to utilize me in your plan, but hey, I’m glad it helped.” Sera grinned, then bonked her head against mine. I had to laugh in response.

“…Sorry, sorry. I…had to make him think he had me completely figured out. There had to be just enough misdirection to let us start with the handshake, and—”

“Corin, I was there. I planned it with you. You don’t have to overexplain it.”

I sighed, then…trembled. “I…”

“It’s okay, Corin. You won. The duel. You won.” I shook silently in my sister’s arms.

“It’s over now. It’s finally over.”

***In the aftermath of the duel, there was paperwork to sign, more check-ins to make, and assurances to give my friends on the train ride back to Lorian Heights that Sera had not, in-fact, betrayed me by leaking information about my training practices or my dueling losses to my father.

We’d been preparing for the duel for some time, but in layers. First, obvious preparations on the surface that could easily be seen. More important, however, were our real preparations — which mostly involved showing false ones.

The meeting in the dining hall where we’d discussed suspicions about Father having a secret specialization mark? Pure theater. We’d held the talk in a public place specifically with the hopes that Father had someone observing us to report it back to him. Roland, perhaps, or just a hired hand. We had several other similar public conversations for the purposes of giving Magnus the wrong impressions when he heard about their contents.

My training with Teft was mostly misdirection. Useful, yes, but largely as a fallback.

I couldn’t beat Teft in a straight fight, and I knew with absolute certainty that I wasn’t going to be able to beat Father in a direct confrontation, either. I had to fight on my terms, not his — it was just a matter of figuring out the best way to do so.

Altering his attunement wasn’t my only possible approach. His suspicion that my plan was contingent on using Jerome Schmidt’s sword wasn’t far from one possible scenario I’d prepared for. I’d watched Father fight multiple opponents who used void magic — both from the opponent Sera mentioned in the dining hall and others, recently and in the distant past — and I knew that properly applied void mana was one rare means of countering certain types of Shaper abilities. It was particularly effective against simulacra, but Magnus Cadence preferred constructs, and void wasn’t quite as effective against those. I needed more void than the sword could generate to effectively protect myself against Citrine-plus level constructs…so I’d built a few items for that plan, too.

Six Sunstone-level void emitters, each designed to be placed at static locations around a battlefield to emit magic nullification fields. I’d finally finished them the night beforethe duel, upgrading the ones I’d used during the final exams. They’d been the product of a great deal of trial and error, and they still didn’t work the way I wanted — I hadn’t been able to get them to exempt me. Not completely, at least. I’d built myself a defensive void shaping sigil to help mitigate the effects of the field, but it wouldn’t have stopped the effects entirely. The idea was that I could drop one of the field generators and use it to nullify simulacra and similar constructs, while still being able to use some of my other abilities. I could activate and deactivate them remotely through verbal commands, allowing me to target specific areas for nullification while trying to retain as much of my strength as possible.

I was glad I didn’t have to use them. I still wasn’t sure they would have had enough mana saturation to stop him from casting anything, nor was I confident that I’d be able to drop them in strategic locations and activate them quickly enough to make them useful. And since I’d used weaker versions during the final exams, there was a good chance he knew about their existence, even if he hadn’t mentioned them.

There were other options as well. I’d set my teleportation anchor when I’d ducked down near the dueling arena entrance so I could use it to get out of a Shaper box. I’d prepped to set my attunement levels to an alternate version of Spessartine with custom safe-mana levels that I suspected I could survive for a few minutes.

I’d borrowed several powerful items from other people — ones I won’t even talk about here. Needless to say, they weren’t necessary.

But the greatest preparation I’d done was also the greatest risk—I’d modified my own Arbiter attunement.

It was a terrifying prospect. I’d known that modifying my Arbiter attunement risked the possibility that I’d break it in a way  that  couldn’t  be  fixed.  Unfortunately,  extendedtinkering with external items to change attunement functions simply hadn’t produced the results I needed.

Specifically, access to the Citrine-level Arbiter function that allowed me to access the hidden sections of attunements.

I hadn’t made myself a Citrine-level Arbiter, of course. I’d simply unlocked the single function that Warren Constantine had warned me to never use. The function that unlocked my ability to view and modify attunements without restriction.

Upon seeing those functions unveiled, I suspected that I would be able to make changes to attunements on a much broader level — and potentially without the subject’s consent. I wasn’t able to read through the sub-glyphs completely enough to understand how that functioned.

Even after the duel, I wasn’t sure how much of an effect I could have without consent. When Magnus had agreed to the terms of the duel, he’d said, “Corin can do whatever he wants”, which might have been interpreted as consent for attunement modification…or it might not have.

Eventually, I’d read the full scope of the sub-glyphs for greater understanding, but for the moment…I turned that function off, once again hiding the attunement’s innermost workings. The temptation to tinker with my own attunement further would be too great if I’d kept that function active any longer than I strictly needed to.

Even that dangerous tinkering likely hadn’t been the source of my success, however.

No. Father’s mistake was that he’d seen the duel as starting the moment he’d challenged me.

In truth, it had started the day I’d earned my attunement.

The day he’d tried to turn my sister against me.

In order to make sure that her “betrayal” was convincing, we didn’t share our plans with anyone else. We needed the audience to react with the appropriate level of shock and surprise…and, as much as Patrick was dear to me, acting was not among his strengths.

Anyway, he knew other parts of our plan, and I’d told him that there were parts that I was keeping secret, so he wasn’t offended. Not at that part, at least.

Patrick…was happy for me, but I got the impression he wasn’t quite happy with the whole exchange about my role as an Arbiter of Katashi. That was a conversation that needed to happen, but one I wasn’t quite ready to have.

I still wasn’t sure what my own position was on it, in truth.

…And for the moment, the only position I wanted to be thinking about was sleeping in a very, very soft bed.

That much, I think, I’d earned.

We made it back to Derek’s house without incident. I survived a round of congratulatory celebrations, which were mercifully brief, but still in many ways almost as stressful as the duel itself. I explained to everyone that Sera deserved much of the credit for being willing to risk her own position to help me with the duel, and she gracefully accepted my appreciation.

And then finally, mercifully, the day was truly over. My battle was over.

I didn’t know what it meant for the future. Not my future, not my father’s future, or that of House Cadence—But I could tackle future problems after I had a very, very long night of sleep.

***I took the next couple days off.

I basically just hid in my room for the most part, trying my best to stave off having panic attacks about winning my duel, of all things.

Sometimes my mind just…isn’t cooperative.

Fortunately, my friends gave me space, and after a couple nights of reading and magical research, I was finally getting to feel like myself again.

So, to help move on from one of the greatest problems of my life, I decided to celebrate in the only way I knew how—Creating a whole new way to risk my life.

