CHAPTER XXXV – THORNS OF THE SOUL

I sat with Selys-Lyann unsheathed across my lap. Even without taking any further steps, I thought I could feel something subtle scratching at the edges of my consciousness, as if in anticipation of what was coming.

It was incredibly creepy, if I’m being honest. I wasn’t big on the idea of anyone or anything messing with my head. I wasn’t sure if I was going to be thrilled with the results even if it was an unqualified success…but I couldn’t just keep waiting and doing nothing. The sword was waking up, bit-by- bit, even without any intervention on my part.

I simply couldn’t continue to risk the possibility of being dragged into some weird flashback to another person’s life in the middle of a fight — or just the sword responding by trying to “help” in a way that could be equally fatal.

True, Vellum’s suggested approach of locking the sword’s functions would have addressed those concerns, at least in part. But then I’d risk the possibility of putting Selys-Lyann in a position of being trapped inside their vessel without any agency to influence the world, which wasn’t a fate I was willing to instill on the sword. Yes, workarounds for that were possible — like adding runes for communication, but also adding runes for disabling the ability to do anything else — but that didn’t feel very fair, either.

…And ultimately, I was just done waiting for things to happen. If the sword was going to wake up, I wanted it to happen on my terms — and the chance to learn whatever Selys-Lyann could tell me about their past. And, of course, the power that a spirit bond to a weapon like Selys-Lyann provided wouldn’t be a bad thing, either.

When Keras had bonded with Dawnbringer, he’d grown stronger along with their bond’s development. Keras was a special case, of course — his abilities made him better suited to gaining power from swords than anyone else Iknew of — but it was well-documented that bonding to the sacred swords offered more powers that gradually unlocked over time.

Selys-Lyann wasn’t exactly a sacred sword, but if it was a piece of Flowbreaker, that meant that the potential existed to unlock new abilities through a bond. It wasn’t a guarantee, but I was still far too weak to confront enemies like Mizuchi and Saffron…especially if Mizuchi had a vendetta against this particular sword. I needed to seize opportunities that would increase my chances to survive those encounters in the future.

And so, I sat with my back to a wall, just to make sure I didn’t fall backward whenever some kind of crazy vision started. Given what had happened in my last two attempts, I fully expected that I’d get hit with some kind of flashback to another wielder of the sword when we attempted to make the bond — or possibly a conversation with the spirit of the sword, if I was lucky. Maybe both.

Derek was sitting in front of me, ready to cast the spirit bonding spell as soon as I gave the instruction to do so.

I wished Keras was there. Not just because he was the subject matter expert on sentient swords…but because if something went wrong, I felt like he was more likely to know how to handle it. Not that I could complain about having an Emerald-level Soulblade there to help me. I was incredibly fortunate for Derek’s willingness to help me with the process. But it felt like Keras should have been there.

“You ready for this?” Derek asked.

“Not really,” I replied, “but do it anyway.” “Hand on the hilt. Brace yourself.”

I put my hand on the hilt and closed my eyes.

There was a flash of white light as Derek soundlessly cast the spirit bonding spell. My mind suddenly felt heavy, as if weighed down by immense pressure, and I could barely retain my awareness of the world around me. I might havetried to open my eyes, but my body felt distant and unresponsive.

Still, I heard the words that Derek spoke next clearly, and I felt something else listening, too. Waiting.

“Repeat after me. ‘By my name, then say your name, I offer thee a bond to my soul.”

As tempted as I was to joke and say ‘then say your name’ instead of my name, it wasn’t the right time. I heard my own words without feeling my body. “By my name, Corin Cadence, I offer thee a bond to my soul.”

I felt it in my fingertips first — a tingling like I’d cut off the flow of blood. That awful sensation spread from my fingertips down my hand, then my arm…I winced.

“Don’t fight it.” Derek turned his head to the side, his eyes gleaming briefly. “You’re fine. It’s just reaching for a connection.”

It was easy for him to say that — it wasn’t going for hisheart.

When I felt the cold nearing the center of my chest, every instinct told me to do something to push it away, but…if I was offering a bond to Selys-Lyann, I knew that would require trust.

I shivered, bracing myself for a cold that never came.

As the tingling reached near the center of my chest, it seemed to flow around it, forming a circular pattern — almost like a barrier. Then it spread out further, splitting to reach up my neck, across my other hand, and down my legs.

In each case, the strange sensation flowed, then circled around points in my body without actually touching them.

These…they’re the attunement points, aren’t they? Dianis Points? Is it searching for them, somehow? Mapping my essence?Keras had been marked by Dawnbringer on one of his hands with a symbol similar to an attunement mark…but Ialready had an attunement mark on one hand and a crystal mark on another.

Is Selys-Lyann aware enough to be searching for a place to mark me without overlapping with an existing mark?That made a degree of sense, but it also implied a greater degree of cognizance than I would have expected this quickly.

Finally, the tingling sensation faded — and I wasn’t sure what to do next. “Do…I have a mark?”

“I don’t see one yet, but it may take some time to form. Not every spirit-bonding item makes a visible mark, but it should work either way. The first step is over. Congratulations.”

I nodded absently, still nervous. “Thanks. What’s next?” “The  Spirit  Communion  spell.  You’ll  use  that  tocommunicate with it. I can cast it this time, but after this first experience, you should try to learn it yourself. You should have access to spirit mana now through your bond with the sword itself. If you need more mana, you can get it from your spirit mana battery.”

I had access to a bit of spirit mana through my Null Contract Gauntlet, but I wasn’t sure if I’d actually told Derek about that yet, and I didn’t feel the need to point it out. The amount of spirit mana I was getting from it was so minimal that I probably needed other sources, anyway. “What should I expect from the communion?”

“In most cases, I’d expect it to be enabling a form of telepathy between you. Based on your prior experiences with this sword, however, I suspect you’ll find yourself in another vision of an old wielder that represents the sword’s spirit.”

“Will you be in there?”

Derek shook his head. “No. The connection is just between the two of you. I’m essentially just adding a layer to the spirit bond you already have, triggering an effect thatwill allow you to speak to each other. I don’t have a bond with either of you, so I won’t be involved.”

That was about what I’d expected and similar to what Keras had told me before he’d left. “Okay. I…think I’m ready.”

“Good, because we’re starting.” He put a hand on Selys- Lyann’s hilt. “Spirit communion.”

With his words, the world around me snapped.

***I wasn’t surprised when my surroundings changed, but I wasn’t quite prepared for how it worked out.

I stood what felt like the middle of a forest, but I couldn’t actually see far enough to discern that properly. A thick fog prevented me from seeing more than ten or fifteen feet in any direction. That immediately made me think of the woods where Keras had found Dawnbringer, but the trees here were different — their bark was an unusually dark brown, almost black, and with strange thorn-like protrusions. That wasn’t the biggest difference, though. I stood at the end of a cobblestone path illuminated by hanging torches glowing with spheres of green flame within. In the distance, among the mists, I could see more paired-gleams. A pathbackward, but I couldn’t say where it led.

…Forward was clear enough. There was a lowered drawbridge in front of me, and from glancing to the sides, I could see that it stretched across a deep chasm. Whether or not that chasm was actually some kind of moat was too difficult to tell with the rolling mists over the area, but I was less concerned with the potential fall and more concerned with what might await me across the bridge.

I stepped across cautiously, processing the fact that I’d made the decision to do so.

I wasn’t seeing through someone else’s mind. If this was a flashback to an experience of another wielder, it was one that I was seemingly able to explore with agency, rather than just watching as a memory.

It isn’t necessarily a flashback at all. It’s possible this is more like when Keras saw Dawn inside her own mind, when she was badly injured — she had a place where she’d manifested a humanoid form to speak. Perhaps Selys-Lyann has developed such a thing as well. And if the forest seems like where Dawnbringer was held, maybe Flowbreaker was held somewhere similar?I remembered that one of my previous visions had also been in a forest, but I hadn’t gotten a good enough look to determine if it was the same one that I was currently standing in. And, if so, it had to be in a somewhat different location—I would have remembered the bridge…and the castle that stood across it.

I gazed upward in awe as I reached the end of the bridge. “Castle” seemed too poor a word to describe it — “imperial palace” might be a better term. The walls were jet black, but covered in vines in a way that seemed artistic and deliberate. The vines had a soft green glow, and when I watched them carefully, I thought I saw them subtly twist as I approached the gates. Not in hostility, but…curiosity, maybe?I didn’t like the idea of grabby vines, curious or not, so I remained ready to dodge if any of them moved too quickly.

The gates, at least, were wide open. The titanic wooden doors were etched with both unfamiliar runes (which I immediately wished I had time to write down) and seemingly more artistic designs. There was a metal portcullis, but it was raised. I gave that another cautious look, since I suspected it could fall at any time, either to impale me with the spike-like bottom or just to trap me inside.

More likely the latter. This looks like a classic “doors slam shut the moment you walk in” scenario.

…I wasn’t sure I liked the idea of greeting my sword’s spirit  in  that  kind  of  situation,  but  it  wasn’t  preciselysurprising.

I had a few ideas on how Selys-Lyann’s spirit might manifest. The most obvious was the first wielder I’d seen, who presumably had held the True Blade. Any of the other wielders was an option, or perhaps some kind of amalgamation of them.

But it was also possible that the sword’s manifestation would be some kind of semblance of Selys herself, who mourned for each of the departed wielders and sought to protect them. Given the castle-like setup, I was finding that more and more likely — trapping someone inside a gigantic structure of dubious safety was classic Selys after all.

The sacred swords and Selys alike both loved the idea of testing people. Was I supposed to anticipate the dangers of the door and take precautions? Or just show my bravery and step through? Without an adequate model of who was testing me, knowing the right solution wasn’t possible.

So, I checked my inventory.

I appeared to have all of my possessions that I was wearing before entering…wherever I was…except Selys- Lyann itself, which was hardly surprising. I reached into my dimensional bag and felt around, then frowned. “Retrieve: Teleportation Anchor.”

I’d whispered it automatically, too used to the Jaden Box’s ease-of-use to acclimate to the dimensional bag’s limitations.

I was half-surprised when I felt something metallic shift within the bag and touch my fingertips. I’d tinkered with the bag’s enchantments to try to get it closer to Jaden Box functionality, but it was still a long way from being finished.

…Apparently it worked just fine in this environment, though. That was strange.

…Wonder what else I can tinker with here, if the rules aren’t quite the way the real-world works…I set the teleportation anchor right outside the gates.

Improved Haste.

I rushed through the doorway.

…Nothing happened. Not with the door, at least.

My vision cleared as I entered the palace…or, the palace grounds, rather. The gateway didn’t take me into the interior of the structure, but rather to an outlying garden. Strange black and red flowers lined the entire path, along with more of those strange thorny trees. I could see a much broader variety of flowers and plants in other sections of the garden— and more in general, since the mists didn’t seem to reach into that area. That also gave me a better idea of where I was standing in general, relative to the structure as a whole. The	black	walls	I’d	seen,	apparently,	were		simply defensive walls — not the entrance to the palace proper, which I could now see more clearly in the distance. It was a colossal structure with a single central tower rising from the center of a keep, with six smaller towers on the edges of the building. I noticed the significance of that immediately, but I was		immediately		distracted		by	something	far	moreimportant—A figure in the distance, sitting at a wooden table with a root-like base that reached directly into the ground below. He sat in a similarly organic chair…or, perhaps, “throne” would be a better word, facing directly toward me.

The details of his form burned into my mind. Tall, regal, wearing black armor that reminded me of silver tarnished beyond salvation. A crown of wilted flowers.

But most of all, I saw the gold burning in his eyes.

“Hello, Corin.” He reached upward with a languid gesture. Roots shot upward from the opposite side of the table, forming a second chair. “Please, sit. I’ve been expecting you.”

I abandoned any hope of simply teleporting out of the palace. Running would have been equally futile, even with the still-open gates.

And so, I approached, and sat in the offered chair. And thus began my audience with the Tyrant in Gold.

