CHAPTER XXXI – AGAINST ALL ODDS

Throwing some standard protection enchantments on the doors to the inner sanctum was easy enough. I’d memorized the designs for most standard anti-infiltration stuff, like anti- scrying runes, anti-teleportation runes, and of course various different types of physical barriers.

As I worked, I was acutely aware that the sounds of battle were growing progressively closer. Mara stood with me, both to help provide protection mana for some more specialized barrier enchantments and to watch my back if infiltrators managed to reach us.

Lute remained upstairs with Sera and the gateway crystal, working on…whatever terrifying plans they were up to.

“Might be that we should call this enough of an emergency to check what’s in there,” Mara suggested. “Different strategies for protecting a teenager from a babe. And I’d love ta know if there’s a real target at all.”

I glanced from side-to-side, trying to gauge if we were being observed. “…Agreed, but I’d rather do it without signaling anyone that we’re bending rules. Hm.” I kept working on the door, considering. “…Is Roland nearby?”

“Thinkin’ so, but he might’ve gone out to fight the beast.” She sounded a little jealous. “Why?”

“Might be time we finally put a Diviner’s skills to use.”

Mara ran up the stairs briefly to search for Roland, but she had no luck — he was already gone. His whole team and two others had been deployed to deal with the hydra.

Half of our forces. More than half of those that are remaining, since we’ve already lost a couple people.

…And Lute thinks he could have handled it alone. Might have been smarter to just send him. Is his presence here really going to make that much of a difference?I got my answer after I finished working on the door and headed up the stairs to where Sera waited with the crystal.

My jaw went slack.

Three copies of Keras Selyrian waved at me in unison.

“It is a bit creepy, ain’t it?” said the solitary copy of Lars Mantrake. “Think one of this hard bastard is more than enough, but then again, I’ve never been opposed to excessive force.”

“Just try not to loot the entire place we’re trying to protect,” Keras number three pointed out.

“’Course not, lad. Can’t do that.” Lars shook his head. “Some enterprising fellow already took half the floor.”

***Lute took a nap. Apparently, providing the gateway crystal with enough mana to conjure three Kerases (Kerasai?) and a Lars took a lot of mana, even for him.

“They’re weaker than the one the crystal summoned to fight you,” Sera explained, “but based on the mana usage, they’re probably in the Citrine range, depending on the efficiency of converting Lute’s mana. So is the Lars copy, and the Kester copy that is working downstairs.”

Kester? Lars’ partner from the Transcendence Shrine? That’s an interesting choice for another copy to pull out here. He seemed to work well with Lars…wonder what happened to the real one. Question for another day, I suppose. There’s something more pressing to ask.

“…That means that Lute just provided the crystal with roughly an Emerald-level amount of mana?” I asked.

Sera nodded. “Let’s not spread the word about that too far. Lute likes us because of our mana types — and because we’re friends with Keras — but he’s…let’s just say he’d be dangerous if someone learned things about him that they weren’t allowed to know.”

I nodded vehemently. The name “Muramasa” he used implied a direct relationship with Satoshi Muramasa fromthe Sacred Sword Tournament, and that man had sounded absolutely terrifying.

“…Wait, how’d you get three versions of Keras? Doesn’t he hate being duplicated?”

“Apparently, the shrine version of Keras is more cooperative than the original in that regard — and he’s an independent entity, so the crystal was able to negotiate a slightly different deal with him. It’s a little strange, but it works to our advantage. I wouldn’t expect to be able to do this kind of thing often, but “defend a city against overwhelming odds” is within the parameters that Shrine Keras considers valid to be copied for. All three copies we have will return their memories to the shrine version when they disperse, so you can see them all as being variants on the same person.”

That felt a little like ignoring the original Keras’ wishes, but I didn’t argue. I couldn’t deny the advantage they offered, nor the logic that they were their own person after being created. Keras likely would have admitted that, too, given how he treated Len — and the main risk of copying Keras wasn’t applicable, since these copies wouldn’t have access to his annihilation powers or his sword.

Sera split up the Keras copies to different roles. They insisted on rolling dice for who got to fight the hydra. Once the winner set off to handle that, the others were set to other tasks — one to cut straight through the enemy army and one to go guard the Unbroken Queen.

“You’re going to need to be cautious,” she explained to the last one. “They’re probably going to see your sword and identify you as the Wielder of Dawnbringer. That could be beneficial or detrimental to our cause.”

“I am the Wielder of Dawn,” he gave her a winning smile. “Copy or not, I’ll always be the hand that guides her light.”

“Well, with an attitude like that, maybe you should go sell them on it. Might be good for morale if they think we have two wielders.”

“Two?” He raised an eyebrow. “We have a Soulbrand.”

“Akari is here?” Keras number two brightened immediately. “Is Ishy with her?”

“Ah, a misunderstanding. We have a different wielder.

Historical scenario and all that.”

He took that easily enough. “Ah, understood. Be happy to meet a different Soulbrand wielder…but wait. Are you aware that the Sacred Swords…”

“Are self-aware? Yes. Don’t worry, the copy of Soulbrand isn’t. It’s just a replica.”

He nodded quickly at that. “Good. We won’t have any problems, then.” He gave us a wave and headed off toward the palace.

…I caught Mara trying to sneak off with Keras number two, meaning “charge the army” Keras.

She was wearing her trouble coat…which was a perfect match for his.

She turned as I caught her at the entrance…then raised a single finger in a “ssh” gesture. I hesitated for a moment — this wasn’t part of the plan — then reached into my pouch and pulled out an extra shield sigil. I tossed it to her and she caught it easily, turning it over in confusion. “For Keras. Try not to break the entire army?”

Mara grinned. “No promises.”

***It turns out that even a Citrine-level Keras Selyrian is absolutely terrifying on the battlefield, especially when they’re told the majority of their opponents are just copies.

It took about fifteen minutes before a message told us that the invading army had been repelled from the gates and forced to withdraw from the city. There were still stragglers — the enemy troops hadn’t simply stayed in a cluster once they’d gotten inside the city, they’d spread out— but the main bulk of their force had been cut through like wheat.

Mara and Keras number two didn’t come back. I didn’t know if that was because they’d been eliminated or if they’d simply charged so deep into enemy lines that they’d been unable to safely return. Maybe they’d gotten stuck outside the walls if they’d gone all the way out of the city before the defenders began sealing the gap. Sera tried sending messages, but Mara either didn’t or couldn’t reply. Mara’s message item might have been damaged, blocked, or simply out of range.

Keras number one joined the three student teams fighting the hydra, which was a good thing, because they’d lost eight people before his arrival on the field. The battle turned quickly when he’d shown up and he’d eliminated the hydra quickly — before Keras number one vanished in a burst of light without any apparent warning.

Two more students had fallen almost immediately thereafter, sending others scattering.

The survivors spoke of glowing arrows fired at high speed without an obvious point of origin.

“Banishment,” Sera spat upon hearing the news. “Probably combined with invisibility, since they never saw the source. I’ll get a message to warn Keras number three to be on his guard against it, but most of our summoned monsters won’t have any chance. Get your defenses prepared, Corin. The real fight is about to start. Mary Hawthorne is here.”

***I set up anti-invisibility wards at every entrance to the tower, hoping to nullify any efforts Mary made to sneak inside and bypass our defenses. Then, I worked with the Transcendence Gateway Crystal to set up more mundane layers of protection. I poured battery after battery into supporting the crystal’s mana supplies, deploying dozens of mundane tricks and traps.

Sera summoned Vanniv to keep an eye on things from above, as well as to replace the section of the building roofthat we’d removed.

Then, we waited in absolute exhaustion for Mary to strike.

…Her attack never came. Not at us, anyway.

It was two hours later that we heard a message from the palace, one that I should have predicted—The army had ceased their assault. Not due to their losses, but due to the arrival of a new commanding officer.

Prince Edria Kang, Wielder of Diamantine, had arrived on the field of battle—And he had offered to decide the city’s fate with a duel.

***I rushed to the royal palace with Sera’s blessing. Her role was to guard the tower with Lute and some of the returned teams from the battle with the hydra. As useful as I was on defense, I had a more important part to play.

If things were being settled with a duel, I was one of the best choices to fight it.

Alaric Cadence had been the one who had ended the war with Edria in our real world. Could a Cadence end this war even earlier?…But by the time I arrived at the palace, the champion had been long decided.

Jin Dalen, Wielder of Soulbrand, would fight Prince Edria Kang in a duel to the death.

***I sat with Jin in the preparation room before the duel. “… Not to deny your skills, Jin, but…we have a spare Keras. You sure you want to do this?”

Jin gave me a strangely intense look. “There are some responsibilities that cannot be so easily passed off to another. I am House Dalen. This may not be the real world, but…this is my fight, Corin. A battle that every modern Dalen has long wished for the chance to fight.”

I nodded slowly. I could understand that, even if I didn’t entirely agree with it.

…Then again, maybe I was a hypocrite. I’d walked into an unwise duel with a copy of Jerome Schmidt in the spire, after all.

“Fine. Pick me as your second, then…and it wouldn’t hurt to imply that Keras is one of your retainers. That will make it permissible for him to help you with preparations.”

Jin gave me a questioning look. “Provided Selyrian will accept it, I would welcome his aid. And…you’d be my second for a duel?”

I sensed a greater significance behind that question than the mere scenario itself dictated. “…Yes. Whatever has passed between us, you’re still…I’d protect you if I can.”

Jin was quiet for a time. “…Good.” He exhaled a deep breath. “Get Selyrian, then. I’ve heard he’s an expert at winning impossible battles. I have a feeling that’s an edge we might need.”

***Preparations for the duel were intense. We had six hours before the duel was scheduled to occur — and we used every moment of it.

Tactics and strategy discussion. Drilling. Enchanting. “Diamantine has three key abilities you’ll need to defendagainst,” Keras explained, “Weight of the World will simply crush you to the ground with a mass and density manipulation effect. Might involve gravity, too. The other major problems are from Diamantine’s blade. One is an effect that shatters weapons on contact — some kind of density and vibration effect, I think. The other is that the sword petrifies people when it cuts them.”

“Oh, is that all?” Jin gave an extremely fake smile.

“No, actually, but those are the main offensive abilities. The defensive capabilities of the weapon are just as potent. From a simplicity standpoint, I’ll say that Edria Song wasbasically invincible with it. To everyone other than me, that is.”

“Don’t you have an amulet to counter the petrification?” I asked Keras.

He raised an eyebrow. “Surprised you know that. But no, not now. Handed it off to big green.”

He was referring to The Green Guardian, of course, one of Edria’s legendary defenders. “…I don’t suppose you’d be willing to lend him one of your swords?”

Keras shook his head. “I know they’re not the real thing, but…no, sorry. Handing off Dawnbringer wouldn’t feel right to me, and it could compromise the realism of your scenario. Handing off the Dominion Breaker…even if it’s a copy, that’s too dangerous. He could end up hurting students with it. My other equipment, however, I could part with.”

“Hm.” I searched my memories for what might be applicable to this situation, in my inventory or Keras’. “Do we know what attunements this guy has?”

Headshakes from both Jin and Keras.

“Historical records from that era are often greatly inflated by propaganda,” Jin explained. “They make absurd claims, like royal family members having three or more attunements.”

“Edria Song has six,” Keras noted.

Jin just stared at him. “…You’re kidding, right?”

“Nope. Fought her a while back. Think the others in her family had fewer, though. You might get lucky.”

We were not, in fact, lucky — at least, not lucky enough to be facing a normal opponent.

Edria Kang wasn’t a chosen hero of prophecy like Edria Song. He didn’t have six attunements—No, he only had four.

Four Emerald-level attunements.

“Bury me somewhere comfortable,” Jin groaned as he stood and headed to the dueling ground.

We gathered with representatives of two nations to prepare for a replacement for one of the turning points in history.

A third-party was present to adjudicate the duel — in this case, to my surprise, an Arbiter of Ferras from Caelford. I had little chance to question her, however, once the preparations began.

Formalities required a reading of the terms from each side, signatures on documents, and each fighter swearing that they were not participating under duress. As a second, I helped deal with formalities and paperwork.

Then, it was time. The combatants marched into the center of a simple dueling circle. Six barriers were erected around it, both to prevent collateral damage and to prevent outside interference.

Jin rested Soulbrand’s massive blade point-down against the ground.

Prince Edria Kang was all confidence, his short black hair raised into a traditional Edrian crown. He wasn’t even wearing armor, just his robes of office — a clear message that Diamantine’s protection would be all he needed.

Final words were exchanged. Jin and the Edrian Prince exchanged salutes.

And then, with a signal from the Arbiter, it began.

***Jin dropped his defensive façade instantly and burst across the arena in a flash of steel. Soulbrand whipped in a horizontal swing at Edria Kang’s chest, the greatsword’s blade bursting with inner fire.

His arm blurred as he shifted upward mid-swing, then his sword impacted—Right against Diamantine, as Edria Kang parried the swing without the slightest hint of effort.

For a moment, my breath caught in my chest—I’d spent hours working on resilience enchantments for the Soulbrand replica, but I didn’t know if they’d be enoughto prevent it from shattering on impact.

I had no idea what kind of enchantments were on the fake Diamantine, after all.

I’d tried to evaluate them at a distance, but even Transcendent Detect Aura had told me little. It radiated as a Sapphire-level weapon, but I knew enough to understand that such a thing could be faked. It was a simulation, after all — and I doubted anyone was handing out Sapphire-level weapons simply for training exercises.

…Then again, I’d doubted that Edria Kang would be able to block that swing, too.

The sacred swords met in a press — and neither shattered.

I might have been comforted if I hadn’t been absolutely convinced we needed to end the match with that first strike. Before the match, we’d established in the rules that beneficial spells from retainers were allowed, as were any types of magical equipment that either duelist would wantto wear.

So, obviously, we’d thrown virtually all our equipment on Jin and stacked him with every beneficial spell we could come up with on short notice.

Transcendent Haste took a lot out of me, but he adapted to it easily enough. Jin’s attunement used perception mana, allowing him to handle haste spells much more simply than I could myself. He didn’t require more than a few minutes of practice to get used to working with Haste—Then Keras had stacked his own speed-enhancing spell, a variant of Body of Dawn that he’d constructed to use on other people, on top of my Transcendent Haste.

Then, I’d flooded Jin with enough mana through my Arbiter attunement to put him half-way to Citrine.

…To say that Jin was moving quickly was an understatement. He was swinging his blade faster than I’d ever managed myself, at least, and I suspected that he’d be capable of matching the Citrine-level copy of Keras in speed.

But Emerald? That was still well-out of reach.

We’d guessed that the simulation of Edria Kang wouldn’t actually operate at Emerald-level, since it was highly unlikely that anyone was available to summon something at that level of power. There weren’t that many Emerald-level Summoners and Soulblades around, after all. Would one of them even help with an exercise like this?…I could practically visualize Elora Theas winking at me as Jin’s swing was deflected.

Edria Kang pushed Jin back, bringing his free hand upward to conjure a blast of green crystals. Jin danced aside, swinging Soulbrand again, then vanished outright before the blades made contact.

Edria Kang swung around, seemingly predicting an invisible ambush — and he was right, but he’d guessed wrong about the angle.

“Crimson Sign.” Jin had reappeared in the air above Edria Kang, Soulbrand’s blade flaring with flames that rapidly expanded as he swung it downward—This time, he came within a hair of smashing the Prince of Edria’s crown.

Edria Kang snapped his fingers, hurling Jin backward with a blast of raw transference mana. Jin swung again in mid-air, sending a torrent of flame, but Edria Kang countered it with a swiftly-conjured wall of water.

Jin landed with a smile.

That was when the flames he’d been channeling into the floor before the match burst upward beneath Edria Kang’s feet.

Edria Kang stumbled backward in obvious surprise as the flames leapt around him, then with a grunt, a burst of ice flashed out from his body and extinguished the fire.

Jin was right in front of him when the flames parted, Soulbrand arcing straight toward Edria Kang’s face.

“Enough!” Edria Kang shouted. A shockwave ripped across  the  arena,  knocking  Jin  backward  and  sendingdangerous cracks across his outermost shield sigil’s barrier. “You will fight me directly or not at all.”

“A would-be conqueror does not dictate the terms of the defense of those he seeks to oppress,” Jin intoned with strange sincerity. “You will fight and die on my terms.”

Then Jin vanished again. This time, he did reappear right behind Edria Kang — and Edria Kang looked up.

This is it, my heart pounded.

Jin smashed a cylinder into the Edrian Prince’s back—Triggering both that void emitter and the five others on his belt.

Summons and simulacra, being constructs of pure mana, were disproportionately vulnerable to both banishment and void. That was how Mary had both beaten Meltlake’s simulacrum and banished one of the Citrine-level copies of Keras.

And if our opponents could play that trick, we could do it, too.

I’d tweaked the emitters prior to the fight, temporarily changing them from a durational field into a more standard instantaneous burst — meaning that when Jin had landed that hit, he’d discharged six emitters worth of mana in a burst around him all at once. I hadn’t managed to get them to exclude him, but I’d built a function into his shield sigil to prevent the sigil itself from being affected.

The resulting blast of blackness washed over the arena, enveloping the entire ring in momentary darkness and erasing the first three layers of barriers—…But when it cleared, Edria Kang still stood tall.

That’s…not possible. What?The Edrian Prince swung around as Jin’s eyes widened. Then, as Edria Kang’s eyes darkened, he reached straight through Jin’s barrier and grabbed him by the throat.

No.

I started to step forward, but a group of guards immediately stepped to intercept me. At my side, Keras’hand drifted closer to the hilt at his left side, but he didn’t move further.

Jin coughed, dropping the void emitter.

“You were a fool to fight me. Wielder or not, you’re just a mortal man.” Edria Kang’s sword hand came up, tracing a line across Jin’s right arm.

Stone spread across Jin’s flesh rapidly. His fingers tightened as he flailed, trying to swing Soulbrand at close range.

“No sword will avail you now.” Edria Kang smashed Diamantine’s hilt into Jin’s fingers with a crack, forcing Jin to drop the weapon.

Jin choked as the fingers on his neck tightened.

“What was that? Trying to speak your last words?” Edria Kang smiled, fractionally loosening his grip. “I couldn’t quite hear you.”

“I said…” Jin coughed again, wincing. “Swords never were my style.”

Then he shook his left sleeve, producing a revolver, and shot Edria Kang point-blank in the forehead.

Edria Kang’s body fell backward, hitting back-first. His lips opened to make a final whisper—Which was cut off by Jin unloading five more bullets into his chest.

“Were you trying to surrender?” Jin flipped his revolver back into a holster. “My bad. I guess we’ll never know.”

He shot me a winning smile and promptly collapsed to the floor.

***Word spread quickly of the Wielder of Soulbrand’s victory over the Wielder of Diamantine. Perhaps that would have been the end of the hypothetical war, or perhaps it would have dragged on due to the perception that the Edrian Prince had been unfairly killed in a duel while trying to offer surrender.

We were given no answers when the scenario ended — but we were congratulated on being one of the few teams that had survived until the morning when the test ended.

We were teleported out of the scenario area all at once, then briefly ushered to medical recovery rooms to assess us for injuries before being reunited with our teams.

Most of my friends took longer with the recovery than I did, so I ended up meeting up with Sera alone to chat while the others were healing.

It was at that point that I discovered our victory wasn’t quite as complete as I’d hoped.

“Most of the remaining enemy students hit us right before the duel was set to start,” Sera explained. “They knew at least some of our heavy hitters would be at the dueling area — and they were right. One of our full teams was guarding the Unbroken Queen, and one of our other teams was there to back you up if things went badly with the duel itself. We were undermanned…and things got messy.”

“Messy how?” I asked.

“They must have managed to cut their way through our traps in the sewers. Think they lost a lot of people in the process, but not enough. They detonated a bunch of explosives right below our building, bypassing the majority of our absurd dungeon setup. Then they stormed the building while we were recovering.”

I winced. We probably should have taken more countermeasures for explosives after they used the first bomb, but it just hadn’t occurred to me as being a major strategic element they’d repeat. I was so focused on magic that it was easy to forget that non-magical solutions could be just as effective when properly used. “What happened then?”

“Our defenders rallied to do whatever we could, of course, but it was a bad matchup. Mary was a hard counter to my summons. Lute tried to help me, but this area’s manasaturation is so low that he only had a fraction of his mana pool back by the time the fight started. Vermillion intercepted him and they ended up having a classic rooftop duel that Keras would have loved to see.”

“…Speaking of, did Keras two make it back to help?”

Sera shook her head. “Trapped outside the walls like we expected. Mara and Keras two survived all the way until the scenario ended, though — they carved their way through the army into a replica of one of the crystal shrines, then fought all the way to the end of it and convinced the crystal to help them defend the area.

“That’s…one of the most amazing things I’ve ever heard.”

“You should tell Mara that, she’d like it.” Sera gave me a wink. “Might be good to tell people you like things along those lines more often.”

I snorted. “I’ll take that under advisement.”

“So, more importantly, I managed to fend Mary off with an incredibly awesome new summon — but she wasn’t the only one who made it into our tower.” She sighed. “We forgot about spiders again.”

“…You’re kidding.”

“Nope. Kyra this time. She broke into the sealed room while I was distracted. Got the treasure and teleported out.”

I cursed. Sera nodded in agreement. “…Wait, what even was the treasure?” Sera sighed. “God phoenix egg.”

I blinked. “Wow. One of Suzaku’s eggs was in there?That’s…yeah, okay, that definitely does count as treasure.” “No kidding. I’m betting they had a scenario goal to stealit, likely to use it as a bartering tool against Suzaku herself. Might even be enough to claim the whole Phoenix Spire as ransom.”

“…Kelridge wouldn’t agree to something that extreme.” “No,” Sera smiled, “meaning our scenario was just thestart of a whole new potential future. Shame we’ll never getto see how that reality gets to play out. I wouldn’t have minded playing a little longer.”

“Who knows?” I smiled. “There’s always second semester finals. Maybe they’ll surprise us with a sequel.”

