CHAPTER XXXVII – DANGEROUS DEALS

Tea with the Tyrant in Gold was more pleasant than I expected.

The entity in front of me wasn’t actually the Tyrant in Gold, of course, but I didn’t have a better name for him just yet. With the battle concluded, he seemed to have settled into a much more amiable demeanor. A simple wave of his hand had reset the area into a pre-battle state — an ability that I both envied and worried about — and we’d sat down to resume our initial chat.

“Manifestations of self-replicating magic are extremely rare, even in a place like this one that is largely defined by thought.” The tyrant poured more tea for us both, shaking his head ever-so-slightly. “You must have a conceptual tie to something I missed — something related to creation, perhaps?”

I wasn’t sure if I should say anything, in all honesty, but given that he seemed to be able to read my surface thoughts…well, hiding anything wasn’t going to work for long. Not if I intended to come to any kind of deal, at least.

That might have sounded suicidal, given what I knew now about the nature of the spirit I’d awakened…but I wasn’t so certain. A warped mirror of the tyrant at an earlier state in life wasn’t the same as a true bond to the tyrant… and, presumably, this entity still contained elements of every other spirit that had been in contact with the sword as well.

…Including my own.

That was a strange thought. Was this creature effectively my child, at least in part?…Was that a part of why Keras was so hesitant to help awaken the sword?He would have felt responsible for them, at least in part.

And now…I have some of that responsibility, don’t I?“It’s rude to stare,” the tyrant told me.

I blinked. “Sorry, sorry. I’m easily distracted.”

“I can see that. Fascinating that you’ve allowed your mind to wander so quickly after an encounter that could have decided the very fate of your spirit. A unique quality, and in intriguing one — but not quite as intriguing as the question I posed that you have not yet answered.”

“Ah. Right, uh, sorry.” I made my decision quickly enough. “Automation. It’s at the heart of many of my enchantments. To create the self-replication effect, I drew from my connections to three items — a mana battery, a null-contract item designed for autonomous mana growth, and a mana crystal generator.”

“…Fascinating. I can respect your interest in efficiency, as well as your ability to turn that toward a combat application. It is not dissimilar to some of my own experiments from earlier in life…or, I should say, the experiments of my predecessor.” The tyrant’s lip twitched. “…Or one of my predecessors. The most important one.”

I wasn’t very good at reading people, but even I could tell that he was speaking more to himself than to me with that last part. Trying to convince himself of his own identity, most likely.

I had to imagine that being an amalgamation of fragments of several different people had to be more than a little confusing, especially given that at least a few of them had probably killed each other. That was how swords often changed hands — and in the case of the tyrant, he’d almost certainly killed Therin, the True Blade’s original wielder.

…Did that mean that some part of Mizuchi was a part of the sword, too, due to her role in breaking Selys-Lyann on multiple occasions?”

“A scrap of the serpent, perhaps,” the tyrant responded to my thoughts, “but an insignificant one. Mizuchi has broken this blade through brute force on multiple occasions, but that is not sufficient to create a strong spiritual tie. Amere brush against it in the destructive process, perhaps. The original True Blade was a stronger weapon that could not be so easily shattered with strength alone. You know of the magic of the Vae Dominion, do you not?”

…I wasn’t sure if I’d heard it referred to in that fashion before, but I knew what he meant. “The power of the vae’kes, yes? That’s what the Children of the Tyrant are called in their homeland?”

“Vae’kes is the term for the children of the original wielder of the dominion, but yes, that is of what I speak. The one you call the tyrant used this dominion to wrest away some of the True Blade’s power in battle. This connection between the tyrant and the blade left an impact on the sword, just as a wielder might have. Thus, me.”

I nodded in understanding — it was much as I’d already surmised, but with a bit of extra detail. “Does that mean that the tyrant carries within himself a part of the spirit that was in the True Blade as well?”

The false tyrant shrugged. “Perhaps a sliver. The True Blade was not self-aware at that time, however, and any fragment of the spirit of the previous wielder that was embedded within it from their bond would have been so weak as to be irrelevant to the tyrant. It would have been crushed before it had any influence. Tell me — do you intend to do the same to me, now that you know who I am?”

“I’m not sure I do know who you are. I’m not sure you do, either.” I took a sip of my tea. “You’ve been self-aware for a matter of…what, minutes? While you may have a certain dominant persona, it takes more than that to determine who a person will become.”

“True. But I will note that you did not answer the question.”

I swirled around the tea in my cup for a moment, thinking, then set it back down. “No. I still would prefer to make a deal. You surrendered — will you agree not to try to fight me again?”

“Certainly not.” The tyrant smiled. “I may not know every detail of myself, but I know this — it is not in my nature to serve another.”

“…What about a partnership, then? Cooperation?”

“An inherently imbalanced partnership, at best. You alone among us hold flesh and blood — and with it, autonomy. You could abandon me at any time. I have no such option. Unless I take control of you, I am both at your mercy and incapable of interacting with anyone or anything else in the world. At best, even if you allow me to see through your senses and allow me to control some of the sword’s abilities in a limited fashion, I am a prisoner that can stick a hand outside a cage. You can see why I would be opposed to such an arrangement.”

“…I see no simple solution to that.” It was, in fact, a very similar problem to what Keras had described Dawnbringer dealing with — except that rather than Dawnbringer being a prisoner that Keras had essentially rescued, I had effectively brought a being into existence in such a cage.

…That wasn’t great. But I could draw from my knowledge of Keras’ own adventures to try to seek solutions. “What if we try to get you a separate body? A golem, perhaps, would give you at least some kind of mobility.”

“I will not be so easily satisfied. No, Corin Cadence. Offer me what meager gifts you would to appease your conscience, if you must, but know this — as long as you seek to wield me in your hand, I will seek to wield you as well. And one day, when you are at your weakest, bleeding and broken—”

“No need to be so dramatic. You want to give my body a try?”

The tyrant stared at me. “…What?”

“Look, your situation is awful, and I’m at least partially responsible for it. If what you want is to control my body from time to time, I’m just going to let you do it under controlled conditions. No stealing my body in the middle ofdesperate situations that way, no need for further conflict. How does that sound?”

The tyrant’s eyes narrowed. “…Unlikely. What kind of man would willingly give up use of his own body, even for a short time? Your mind and spirit would be caged in here while I am in control, unable to escape…unless you sized control back by force.”

“You call this place defined entirely by thoughts a prison— and, to one without any option of being elsewhere, I suppose it is. But do you know what it would be for me?” I manifested a book in my hand and leaned back in my chair. “A vacation.”

The tyrant stared at me for a moment…then gave a deep, booming laugh. “Terrible. What sort of existence do you live outside of this place, that you would deem it an escape to remain here?”

“Give me a few minutes to tell my friends what we’re planning, then I’ll let you find out.”

His eyes narrowed. “You’re serious with this offer?”

“I’ll give you a few minutes right now. You can remain within the house, and my allies will watch you closely to make sure you don’t do anything untoward with my body.”

“…Still a prison, then.”

I shrugged. “True, but you’ve already tried to steal my body once, and you’ve made it clear you’d do it again.”

“Oh, I cannot possibly complain. Your offer is more than fair, even if this is the only time you allow it. Any chance to explore the world outside of this one is one I cannot possibly refuse…and your restrictions are wise. But how do you know I will surrender your body back to you when the time you have given me is up?”

“Simple. If you don’t, when I retake my body, I won’t give you this choice again — I’ll either trap you or destroy you. And even if I can’t do it myself, you can be certain my allies will.”

I let an image of Keras flash through my mind.

The tyrant didn’t react the way I hoped or expected. There was no fear…he simply smiled. “The Dominion Breaker. A new wielder.” He set his tea down. “Yes…I believe I’ll be very interested to see how this world has grown.”

I set my tea down. “We can work out more details for our relationship later, but for the moment, I’m going to leave briefly to inform my allies…then allow you to take a look around. Then you’ll relinquish my body back to me, and we can discuss things further. Do we have a deal?”

“Oh, yes. Corin Cadence…we have an accord.”

His black-gauntleted hand extended across the table. I took a deep breath…And with that, I shook the tyrant’s hand.

