CHAPTER XXXVI – FOOL’S GOLD

The world darkened as I took my seat. Not in a metaphorical sense — it felt as if time had passed at an extraordinary speed and daylight fell into night the moment that I took my position across from the tyrant. I tried not to think too much about any symbolism inherent in that change — I was far too distracted by more immediate worries.

Am…I seeing this inside the sword? This isn’t—“Not what you expected?” The Tyrant in Gold reached forward, but rather than striking me, he simply lifted a teapot and poured steaming liquid into a pair of cups. He set one directly in front of me, then gently lifted his own cup to his lips to sip.

“I…No. It certainly isn’t.”

The tyrant’s lips turned up as he finished sipping, then gently laid down his cup on a coaster.

Was that there before? No, don’t get distracted, that’s not important. Not dying is the priority.

A manifestation of my religion’s central antagonist was sitting in front of me. The coaster was, in all likelihood, not the greatest threat in the area. Not that he couldn’t kill me with a tea coaster, but…“That’s an interesting image, but rest assured that if I choose to end your life, it will be in a more traditional fashion.” The tyrant gestured. “Now, your tea is getting cold.”

The tea wasn’t the only thing getting cold. I could feel the tiny bumps forming on my arms. Still, I had the presence of mind necessary to lift the cup and sniff at it. “Mint?”

“I’ve found that it calms the mind and soul. Which I believe you’ll find are more or less the same, in a place like this one.”

I considered that as I sipped. It tasted like peppermint, which shouldn’t have been surprising, given the smell…but it seemed strange that I could taste anything at all. Less strange than the figure in front of me or the fact that he was clearly reading my thoughts. “Is there any point to me speaking?”

“Oh, certainly. While I’m aware of your surface thoughts, that hardly reveals the entirety of your character. And the actions you choose to take — speech among them — say as much of your character as your mind does. Perhaps more. I’ve always been interested in the distinctions between thought and action, haven’t you?”

“I’ll admit it’s not something I’ve considered much, except in the context of things like deception…and people’s words not matching how they behave.”

The tyrant smiled, sipping again. “How interesting that you draw a distinction there — some would say that a disconnect between words and actions is deception itself.”

“…Sure, I suppose. I…look, I don’t want to be rude, but before we get too deep into discussing philosophy, it would ease my mind if you could tell me if you’re planning to kill me or not…and maybe a bit more about what is going on?”

“Fair questions, both, although I do wish you’d be a bit more patient.” The tyrant set his cup down on the saucer again. There was writing along the rim of it now. Something unfamiliar. Runes? Was he… “The coaster isn’t a trap. Just an embellishment. If I was preparing this space for a confrontation, such signs would be more overt. I do appreciate your eye for such details, however. It is a testament to your character.”

“Thank you?”

The tyrant nodded. “Now, to answer your previous question…this is precisely what you wished for, but you made a slight miscalculation. You believed you’d be seeing Therin here, yes?”

“Therin…that’s the name given to the wielder of the True Blade, correct?”

“One of many. My old enemy wore a number of names and titles in her time, as befitting a sword saint.”

I wanted to ask what he meant by “sword saint” at some point. Keras had mentioned the same term, but that wasn’t my immediate concern. “Then…yes, I was expecting her. Or perhaps one of the other wielders of the True Blade, or Flowbreaker, or Selys-Lyann itself, or…an amalgam of several.”

“You were not quite mistaken in your assumption, precisely. Your error was one of the simplest imaginable. Tell me, Corin Cadence. What happened when you defeated Jerome Schmidt in the Tiger Spire?”

“I, uh…a lot of things? I mean, it wasn’t the real Jerome, and that whole thing was part of a scenario floor, and…” The relevant part struck me like thunder. “I claimed his sword.”

The tyrant’s smile broadened. He took another sip deliberately, as if gesturing for me to continue.

“You…you defeated your rival…and you took the sword.

You…are one of the wielders of the True Blade.”

“Correct.” He raised a finger. “Although, one might argue at the definition of ‘wielder’. I shattered the sword and carried a portion of it for a time. During that time, it’s clear that a portion of my spirit bonded with it, much as other pieces of spirit for other wielders did.”

“Then…if other spirits have bonded with it…why are you what I’m seeing here?”

“Rather than Therin, you mean, or another? Simple. Dominance. While I may appear to you as this,” the tyrant gestured to his body, “you were correct in another sense — I am, in fact, an amalgamation of the bits of spirit that have been bonded to the sword over time. That includes your own, by the way. It is simply that even a fraction of myself, meaning the one you refer to as the tyrant, is sufficient totake precedence over all the others in terms of the formation of consciousness and personality. I am not truly the one you call the ‘Tyrant in Gold’ — such an ostentatious title — but he is the most potent part of myself.”

“Wait, back up,” I raised a hand. “You have part of my own spirit?”

“But of course. You have interacted with Selys-Lyann while it is bonded to your spirit. That two-way connection influences you both. Did you not know this?”

Keras told me about his relationship with Dawn involving a spiritual bond, and I knew there was something similar happening with Selys-Lyann, but…The tyrant tensed. It was a strange thing to see, his movement momentarily freezing and his lips twitching as he lifted his cup again.

I blinked. “Is something wrong?”

“The man who flashed in your eyes — he reminded me of someone. Let us not speak of such unimportant things, however. Now that you are aware of me, we must speak of our future together.”

“Right. That’s…why I came here.” I shook my head, trying to clear my thoughts. “I suppose it doesn’t really matter what form you take.”

“Oh, but it does. While it’s admirable that you are attempting to adapt as quickly as you are, you should understand that my true self will make things significantly different from what you were imagining. Firstly, in terms of interactions with others. There will be those that can sense the presence of a fragment of myself within the blade — far more now that I am truly awake. Some will see a threat. Others, an opportunity. Perhaps in rarer cases, a source of worship. But none of that is of the greatest import. To answer an earlier question, Corin Cadence, I have no intention to kill you.”

He set down his teacup and stood up to his full height. His shadow fell over me like that of a colossal beast, and Ifelt the primal fear that came with confronting something that I knew could crush me like an insect.

“Killing you would ruin your body, after all.” I leapt to my feet. “Return!”

The circlet on my head flashed. Nothing happened.

“A wise attempt at retreat, but one that, unfortunately, was a hint too late. Your items may not be real here, but your attachment would have allowed their spiritual manifestations to work, had I not already anticipated that and blocked your means of escape.”

I frowned, cautiously taking a step back. “Were you lying about the runes on the coaster, then?”

“No, not at all.” The tyrant outstretched his arms. “But when you stand in the shadow of the Tyrant in Gold, there is no recourse but to kneel.”

An instantaneous burst of pressure slammed me to my knees.

I’d only felt pressure this overwhelming once before — the power that Katashi had used during our first meeting in the Serpent Spire. Even Wrynn’s aura hadn’t hit me quite as hard, though admittedly she hadn’t been attacking deliberately.

I’d been crushed by Katashi’s power back then, completely helpless before him. Too weak to even attempt to save myself.

But I wasn’t that Corin Cadence anymore. “Like deflects like” flashed through my mind. Shroud Burst — Transference.

A flare of transference blasted outward from all around me. It wasn’t necessarily the same mana type as whatever pressure the tyrant was imposing, but it was close enough that the pressure abated, if only slightly.

I rolled to the side just as a series of vines burst through the ground where I’d been standing, then stood outside myopponent’s shadow — at least for a heartbeat before he turned toward me.

That instant was enough.

Saturate Shroud — Light.

A soft white glow emanated from my body. It wasn’t much, but as the tyrant shifted toward me, I didn’t feel the chill of his shadow on my spine.

“I commend you for the rapid countermeasures. You may be young and inexperienced, but you have a duelist’s heart. Had you lived in my time, I would have enjoyed teaching you. Regrettably,” his hand reached out to his right side, “you are not yet a worthy opponent.”

As his hand closed on open air, a weapon wrote itself into the air. A greatsword, one with a hilt that resembled the trunk of a withered tree, with a black blade emerging from among ruined branches. Countless golden runes flashed on the surface. Thousands of lives taken and souls stolen.

One empty spot in the blackness seemed to shine in anticipation, as if waiting for me to take my place there.

Not a chance.

I snapped my fingers. A sword appeared in my own right hand.

Selys-Lyann’s ice flowed across my fingertips, but the frost didn’t bother me at all. I sent mana threads from my hand down the hilt, connecting to the pommel jewel that served as the weapon’s heart.

The tyrant raised an eyebrow. “You’ve discerned the metaphorical nature of this space quicker than I anticipated.”

“It was fairly obvious. If this place is a meeting our minds and souls — and you can manifest objects — it should be equally simple for me to do so.”

“Not equally simple.” The tyrant shifted into a high stance with his greatsword — one designed to swing downward and split an opponent in half. “I am wrought of the stuff of this place. You are merely a visitor.”

“And one that could leave at any time, now.” I tapped the shining circlet on my head. “You’ve lost your element of surprise. Now, I’d still like to talk, if you’re willing. Put down the metaphorical sword and make a deal with me and we can both be happy.”

“That won’t be possible.” The tyrant began to circle to the right.

I shifted left, shifting myself into a standard Valian fencing stance, right arm raised and my body turned sideways to expose less of my body. “Why?”

“I am not the Tyrant in Gold. Not entirely. But I am an extension of him — and it is my nature to conquer.”

His first swing came at exactly the trajectory I expected, a downward diagonal cut. But it was fast.

I jumped to the right. Roots burst from the ground at my ankles at the same time. He’d anticipated the way I’d move, but I’d known he would, and I’d prepared for that, too.

I didn’t dodge the roots this time. I jammed Selys-Lyann downward into them, a surge of ice spreading across the plants on the moment of impact.

These particular roots weren’t important, not in a direct sense. But in a metaphorical space, they represented a form of the tyrant’s power and territory. And as Selys-Lyann’s ice spread across them, I felt that power begin to wither along with the roots.

Crack.

The black blade of the tyrant slammed into my own weapon an instant later, his weapon driving my sword into the ground with such force that it embedded in the stone. Then, without stopping, he brought his sword upward at a diagonal to cleave through my body.

Jump.

I flashed backward, releasing my grip on my sword and the power that came along with it.

The tyrant raised his sword and pointed it straight at my chest.	“Your	understanding	expands,	but	too	slowly.

Surrender yourself now. Perhaps I will allow you to inhabit your own body from time to time, while I am weary or uninterested.”

“You wouldn’t be negotiating if you didn’t think I had a chance of victory.” I reached out toward my sword, willing it to vanish and reappear in my hand. It simply shook in the ground, unable to move. I grimaced. Apparently, even in a metaphorical space, it was “stuck”.

But it was hardly the only tool at my disposal. I reached out and a second sword appeared, one with a black blade somewhat less impressive than the tyrant’s own. Jerome Schmidt’s sword, the one that I’d taken from him in battle. A sword of void.

“You misunderstand. I am not negotiating, simply offering my respect and a concession to your bravery. You would, of course, still be bound to my service, even during times you were allowed some agency…but it is a better fate than what would await you if you continue to struggle in vain.”

He moved forward in a languid fashion, as if he had all the time in the world to destroy me. In truth, perhaps he did— I had no idea if any time at all was passing in the outside world.

The outside world. I was confident I could escape if I wanted to, but…if I didn’t fight this battle now, I would be effectively abandoning the use of Selys-Lyann. I would still have options, but…if I wanted to be a worthy wielder, this wasn’t something I could just run away from.

No. I was tired of running. Tired of letting people think they could use me however they wanted.

“And you would use me instead, then?” The tyrant shook his head. “How hypocritical.”

“I would offer you a deal. A partnership.” I shifted back to a dueling stance. “If you’d be willing to talk. You said you have all the time in the world — why not take the time to consider my offer?”

“A commendable effort, but as I said, it is simply not in my nature. Not every conflict can be resolved with talk.”

My mind flashed to Keras and his bond with Reika, forged from their battle and the talks that followed.

And in the moment my mind flashed to Keras, the tyrant froze once again.

An opening.

Jump.

I surged forward, planning to swing at the tyrant’s wrist. I wasn’t counting on a sword swing to penetrate his armor — even if it wasn’t magical, I didn’t have the kind of strength necessary to burst straight through plate, nor was my sword designed for that — but a direct hit from a weapon with void mana could destabilize his magic. I didn’t know what that would do in a place like this, but it seemed like a pretty good bet that it would hurt him.

…I didn’t get quite that far.

As I blurred forward, his eyes moved, tracking my movement in spite of the burst of speed.

Before my sword even came down for my attempted attack, I was aborting it and jumping backward, a cleaving blow from his massive greatsword parting the air where my stomach had been a minute before.

It took me a moment to realize I hadn’t escaped without contact with that terrible weapon. Not entirely. The greatsword had sliced through the front of my white-and- blue school overcoat, and where the fabric had parted, an inky blackness was spreading across the fabric.

I stepped back, slipped the coat off one shoulder, then the other. Then, threw it at him.

“Hmpf.” He cleaved the hurled coat in half. I lunged back in as his sword was lowered. Haste.

As my speed multiplied, I flicked my sword upward, straight for his exposed chin.

His free hand slapped my sword to the side, his movement even faster than he’d shown with his strikes. When his blade came up, that, too, was faster than before. I barely managed to raise my own sword to parry. The force of the impact was enough to hurl me across the courtyard, but I wasn’t going to let myself slam into a wall.

Disperse Inertia.

The transference spell arrested my movement before I could crash into stone, but I was forced to leap aside as soon as my motion slowed, barely dodging another downward swing that smashed straight into the courtyard floor, tearing through the ground and causing blackened roots to shoot up all around me.

He’s too fast. It’s almost like…He raised his sword again, then moved forward—Release Haste.

His movements slowed immediately, just as mine did. I dodged to the side as he slashed horizontally, then reached up with my free hand and hurled a blast of transference mana at him. It hit him straight on, but only because he didn’t bother to dodge.

“You’ve realized it. Any tool at your disposal is also at mine. Even the one you chose to manifest first. Especially that one.”

Selys-Lyann began to tremble in the ground…then vanished and reappeared in mid-air in front of the tyrant.

He released one hand from the greatsword’s grip to reach for the floating weapon—My expression shifted to one of horror as he laughed and clenched his gauntlet around the sword.

…The look on my face was, however, absolutely fake.

The tyrant was reading my surface thoughts, but I’d dealt with that little problem before. All I had to do was focus hard on what I wanted him to believe.

…And ignore the mana threads that were still connected to the crystal on Selys-Lyann’s hilt, right up until the pointwhen I needed them.

Spread.

Frost exploded from Selys-Lyann’s hilt, encasing the tyrant’s hand. He stumbled backward in genuine surprise, but it didn’t last long.

“A worthless effort.”

The frost on his hand exploded into shards — and in my direction. I shifted my shroud in response, deflecting most of the slivers, but one of them slipped through and left a cut across my cheek.

I hissed.

Lesser Regeneration.

The wound on my face immediately began to close.

“Ah, thank you.” A green glow, echoing my regeneration power, spread across his right hand. “I was uninjured, but I confess that the frost left me with a dreadful numbness. That’s gone now.”

He’s benefitting from the spells I’m casting on myself. My enhancement spells are useless.

…Unless…Roots surged from the ground beneath me. I jumped upward, a burst of transference carrying me above their grasp, then slashed in mid-air repeatedly, sending crescents of void downward at the tyrant. He simply vanished out of their path and reappeared a few feet back.

Teleportation? Is that one of his abilities? Or…is he just repurposing the power of my circlet?“An excellent question.” The tyrant reappeared right in front of me, while I was still in mid-air from my transference- jump. I swung at him, but he merely deflected my blade with Selys-Lyann, sending me crashing back toward the ground.

When I smashed into the stone, he was there, too, and I barely managed to blast myself backward with a transference burst to get myself out of the range of his next swing from the greatsword.

No, he’s using abilities that are outside of just what Selys-Lyann and my items are capable of. The roots, creating the tea…either he has some of the tyrant’s own powers…or his abilities in this space are entirely arbitrary. And if they are…I’m going to be honest, I tried turning the air around him into acid.

It was a little rude and abrupt, but he was trying to kill me, and I was getting a little tired of playing “learn how the metaphorical combat rules work while trying to avoid lethal soul injuries”.

That game is a mouthful, and it’s also just not very fun.

Not for me, anyway.

So, yeah. Turning the air into acid seemed like an expedient way to just sort of, uh, win.

But nothing happened.

The tyrant shook his head. “Valid, but vain. Only that which has marked your spirit exists here. The same is true for myself. Unfortunately for you, you’ve marked my spirit, and thus…”

His aura flared…with my own Shivering Technique.

The ground below him froze solid, but he simply floated above it. Apparently, he must have had levitation among the abilities he’d borrowed from my items or his own powers.

His demonstration was probably intended to terrify me, but he’d made a critical error—He’d reminded me about our connection. And much like the power that flowed through the mana threads in my hand, that connection went both ways.

I pointed. Thick roots shot up through the frozen ground and wrapped around his legs, yanking him downward. He snarled and slashed them with his greatsword, but that distraction gave me enough time to flex my power further.

Or, rather, to flex his.

My shadow spread out from my body and the courtyard, enveloping him in an instant.

…And having no effect at all. “Oh, child.” The tyrant frowned. My shadow exploded.

I felt a moment of disorientation as my head swam, then he was right in front of me. I stumbled backward, unable to focus. When he swung Selys-Lyann, I tried to parry it, but he simply knocked the sword out of my grasp.

A moment later, he’d slammed the sword into the wall right next to my head.

He leaned in close, smiling.

Explodey Punch.

I slammed my fist into his face. He didn’t budge an inch.

He grabbed me by the neck, then, without effort, lifted me from the ground.

“Our spirits are marked by every experience we have, but the mere brush of a shadow is not enough to wield it.”

Not enough…I felt his hand tighten around my throat. I struggled against his grip, both my hands moving to try to pull his apart, but my hands weren’t strong enough.

I wasn’t strong enough. Not for all my attunements, my items, or even the powers of his that I’d tried to copy.

But he’d said it himself—Our spirits were marked by every experience we had.

Every touch, kind or unkind, was another kind of power I could draw upon in that place.

Permafrost Cascade.

Shards of ice rained from the sky and crashed down into the tyrant’s back. He hissed in frustration, then spun and hurled me to the ground.

I hit the stone so hard that I nearly blacked out. As I coughed and sputtered, I heard him moving behind me, too fast for me to turn and defend myself.

Return.

I teleported — but not out of that place.

No, much like the tyrant, I’d subverted the circlet’s power.

I’d moved right behind him.

I wobbled on my feet, still unsteady, but my Lesser Regeneration spell was still active and blunted the pain from my wounds. I raised my hand and manifested another weapon.

When he spun, his black greatsword met the silver and gold of Bright Reflection.

“That weapon—”

I pushed my sword back against his, the radiant glow around Bright Reflection burning brighter than I’d ever seen it.

And with it, I used a power that I’d never truly seen.

As he fell back in the wake of the light, I pointed straight at his chest.

“Luminous Arc.”

The sword’s aura flared—Then, for an instant, the shadowed courtyard was bathed in the power of Dawn.

A pillar of white and gold exploded from the sword’s tip and slammed straight into the tyrant, staggering him. I pushed the sword forward and strode closer, continuing to slam the beam of light into him. White smoke rose as it impacted his black armor, until…“Enough!”

The white light ended.

And the false Dawn shattered in my hand.

The entire world went black. The courtyard was gone, the table, the chairs — everything except us.

The tyrant flickered, then reappeared just in front of me, his golden eyes glaring straight into my own. “You have proven a worthier opponent than I expected, but this ends now.”

I reached out into the blackness, trying to repair the broken blade in my hand, but nothing happened. I tried to conjure Selys-Lyann next, but nothing came. A blast of power flashed out of my hand as I tried to send a burst of transference toward him, but it dissipated harmlessly the instant it left my body.

“I have claimed this place and everything within it.” The tyrant raised his sword like an executioner. “Including you.”

I had only a broken hilt in my hand.

…But I had more than that still in my mind.

His greatsword flashed down. I only had an instant before it brought me to a very messy end.

Fortunately, I didn’t need more than an instant.

Accelerated Computation.

If I used a beneficial spell, he benefitted from it, too. Thing is…not every spell is equally useful to every person in every situation.

And as I learned from running into walls with Haste, some spells had a hefty learning curve.

For a being that was already reading my own mind, and composed primarily of spirit and intellect?Calling what I did sensory overload would have been too much of an understatement.

The moment my spell went off, the tyrant collapsed, completely inert.

The blackness faded. We were back in the courtyard, his greatsword tumbling from lifeless fingers.

I ignored the unnecessary measurements of distance and proximity floating through my mind as I stepped closer, dismissed the warning thoughts about the rate at which he would need to swing his fist to punch straight through my chest if he was feigning weakness.

He wasn’t faking. He was twitching on the ground, but that seemed to be the best he could accomplish.

I…almost felt bad for him. No, I did feel bad for him. He’d tried to steal my body, so I couldn’t feel too awful, but I’d awakened his sentience — I had a degree of responsibility for him.

But that only went so far.

I lowered my sword to his neck. In this space of thought and spirit, I wasn’t sure what “killing” his body would do, but there was a good chance it would do…well, the same thing killing someone did anywhere else.

I took a deep breath.

One.

Two.

Three.

Four.

Five.

Then I slammed the pommel of my sword down on his back. The impact smashed him into the ground hard enough to crack the stone beneath him. His greatsword, already lying on the ground, flew into the broken remains of the nearby table.

Then I kicked him in the chest and flipped him over, putting my sword at his throat.

Release Accelerated Computation.

His breathing slowed. Slowly, his trembling ceased, and his eyes reopened…then turned to the sword at his neck.

“Ah.” He lips turned downward, just slightly. “I must confess that I am not acclimated to circumstances like this one. Typically, I would be the one on the other side of the sword. How is it that one must behave?”

“You could start with surrendering.”

“Could I?” He mused aloud. “I’m not so certain. Does it seem to you that the Tyrant in Gold would surrender to a mere child?”

“I honestly have no idea. I sincerely doubt you know much better yourself.”

His eyes narrowed. “Watch your words. You have earned a reprieve, but I am not—”

I snapped the fingers on my right hand. Six additional copies of Selys-Lyann appeared, floating above me. Then thirty-six. Then two-hundred and sixteen.

In moments, the sky above us was filled with floating blades.

I twitched a finger. The swords shook in unison with my movement. “Don’t push me.”

The tyrant stared at the sword-filled sky.

“You…shouldn’t be able to do that. Manifesting things here should be limited by your spiritual attachments, you don’t have multiple—”

“You can surrender now.”

“I…” The false tyrant turned his head to the side, a quizzical expression on his face. “…Surrender?”

