CHAPTER XXXIII – UNLIKE FATHER, UNLIKE SON

Home.

It was a dissonant word in my mind. The doors of House Cadence’s ancestral home were achingly familiar, but the weathered wood wasn’t welcoming. For so long, those doors had been prison gates, a symbol of inaccessible escape.

I walked inside, subtly adjusting the circlet on my brow to make certain it wasn’t covering my Enchanter attunement. I wanted it to be seen.

I wanted myself to be seen.

Sera walked at my side, perhaps incidentally, more likely by design. I had no energy to spare on making certain she felt her position was secure and understood. By previous agreement, she would handle that side of things herself.

Patrick trailed three steps behind us, showing proper form for my personal retainer and second. We would allow no doubt as to his position, not in this particular engagement.

Father sat in the antechamber in the great chair, his legs folded casually, a glass of wine lifted in his hand. At his left side was Cayden Royce, Roland’s father. Roland was there, too. In retrospect, I clearly should have discussed things with Roland before this event, but it wasn’t my main concern.

To Magnus’ right sat his obvious second — my paternal uncle, Nathaniel Cadence.

I suppressed urge to tighten my fist when I saw that particular choice. My uncle was an obvious choice for a second. He was, after all, already complicit.

Whenever my father had pushed me too far, broken something that wouldn’t heal on its own, he hadn’t sent me to a hospital. Father had called upon Nathaniel, who had, in turn, called upon one of his own retainers — a Mendernamed Galen Torc — to take care of my injuries morediscreetly.

Memories of broken bones and twisted fingers flashed through my mind, but I ignored them.

The duel had already begun with that choice, and I would not be disarmed so easily. No, my eyes turned to assess the third figure who sat in the room.

A healer, yes, but not Galen Torc. Oh, no. Far from it.

Any legal duel on this scale required an adjudicator to ensure the rules were followed, witness the result, and prevent any escalation during or after the battle. Duels did not necessarily require having healers on-hand, but father and I had agreed to have one present in the terms for the battle.

We had also agreed that the adjudicator and the healer could be same person, if one could be found that met all necessary criteria to play both roles.

I’d drawn up those terms carefully to appear reasonable, but avoid suspicion.

The healer would be from outside House Cadence and House Lyran, to avoid any political complexities. A simple request, easily granted.

A noble, naturally. Someone of appropriate standing to serve as witness and treat our wounds. Father’s pride would allow for nothing less.

Someone of Citrine-level or higher, given the likelihood of serious injury. This was, perhaps, the most extreme request— Citrine-level healers were not easy to find, especially if one was simply looking through the local nobility. Still, higher-level attuned warranted higher-level healers. Accepting this implied that Father was acknowledging the possibility of serious injury, and by requesting a high-level healer, he also implied that he would not be taking it easy on his child. This was, from a reputation standpoint, important for ensuring that the duel was taken seriously.

When we considered who was local, and who he had pre- existing relationships with, and who could be judged to attend without the appearance of bias…When I saw who father had chosen, I almost permitted myself to smile.

Sheridan Theas tipped their hat to acknowledge my entrance and sat down their cup of tea. They were wise enough not to smile or wink, which was perhaps more than I expected.

Placing Sheridan at the duel wasn’t an opening cut. Rather, their presence opened up new angles of attack, ones that I could potentially exploit if needed.

“Welcome home, Corin.” Father set down his wine glass and stood up, brushing the sides of his long coat to the side. The action exposed the dueling cane on the left side of his belt, as well as the long rows of runes on the inside of his dueling coat. An opening move, one designed to simply shift my footwork sufficiently to throw me off balance. “I trust you are prepared?”

“Thank you, Father. I am, of course, ready. Before we begin, however, procedure requires that our seconds speak to attempt to remedy our dispute, does it not?”

A false retreat — a simple tactic designed to bait an opponent into pursuit.

But simple moves would not take Magnus Cadence off- guard so easily. “Of course, that’s the standard procedure. I’m certain your uncle will be happy to speak to…the butcher’s boy, was it?”

Magnus Cadence knew exactly who Patrick was. He wouldn’t have approved of Patrick as a retainer without doing research. This was a quick jab at the face, designed to incense, not for a true assault.

I deflected the lazy jab easily enough. “His father is a carpenter, actually. Oh, and if you haven’t heard yet, Patrick has been formally acknowledged as Chancellor Meltlake’s personal apprentice. I believe congratulations are in order?”

“That is impressive,” Magnus replied, seemingly musing aloud, “it would appear that you’ve been outperformed by yet another member of your family, then.”

Ah. I’d stepped into a trap, then. And that trap was laid adjacent to another.

If I accepted his assessment that Patrick was out- performing me, I’d embarrass myself, as well as House Cadence.

If I disputed it, I would potentially insult my own retainer.

But I’d picked up a few tricks about traps from a peculiar teacher — and sometimes the best way to deal with a trap wasn’t to step out, but to smash it so hard that it ceased to function.

“Oh, you have no idea. You should have seen when we fought Mizuchi. He reflected her breath weapon! He must have done more damage than some of the Citrines and Emeralds, whereas I barely managed to affect her in our first fight. I did much better in my second fight against Mizuchi, of course, but Patrick wasn’t there for that, and presumably he would have contributed even more if he was there.”

Sheridan reached up with a handkerchief to half-stifle a laugh.

Father’s expression froze. I’d shoved him straight into his own second trap. “Your second fight against Mizuchi.”

“Oh, yes.” I nodded fervently. “That was just a few of us, rather than the full ballroom. It was much harder. Why, if Tristan wasn’t there, I don’t—”

“No.” Father stepped forward, slamming his boot down and dropping any pretense of civility. “You will not mock me by uttering that child’s name in your lazy falsehoods. I expected you to play games, Corin, but your insults go too far. I have changed my mind. There will be no further negotiations between seconds, no delays. We go to the dueling field. Now.”

I nodded.

He was already off-balance. I hadn’t disarmed him yet, but then, I hadn’t planned to disarm him this early. Things were going just as planned.

…But my heart was still beating like a drum, slamming so loud I could almost hear it. All it would take was a single mistake. A single lethal thrust.

If I wasn’t careful, I had no doubt that I’d lose more than pride and status.

If I didn’t play things right... Magnus Cadence would kill me.

***I knew every corner of the dueling field. I’d fled across every inch of it, stumbled across every rock, bled across every blade of grass.

Okay, a bit of hyperbole there, sure.

But the familiarity of the field hit me almost as hard as my mother’s absence.

I’d hoped, right up until the very last minute, that she’d be there. That a duel with my own father would be enough of a message that she’d come home, maybe even intervene, maybe—I set that thought aside.

Like I’d told the others, I’d chosen to make this fight my own, and I’d stick with that. If Mother didn’t deem my duel important enough to attend…well, that was nothing new. Nothing unexpected.

I could fight with that hollow hole inside of me. I’d learned how long ago.

I ducked down near the entrance of the dueling field, as if to offer a prayer. It wasn’t unusual — many people offered thanks just before a duel, or made symbolic gestures before entering an arena or dojo. Father didn’t even look back at me, which made the next part easy. I left something behind, then stood up.

Father and I took our positions in the center of the field. I didn’t rush to any particular position, even though therewere arguments to be made that having my back to the house would have been advantageous due to the position of sun blazing in the sky, or that slight elevation might offer another edge.

No, I just walked right behind Magnus to the center, letting him choose his spot — a flat, boring patch of grass that had been worn down by the sheer number of times his boots had flattened the position. I adjusted to exactly six paces away from him to take our preparatory postures.

“Within the sight of the Goddess, I declare an official beginning to this duel’s proceedings.” Sheridan turned to Magnus. “Lord Magnus Cadence, you have stated a grievance against your son, Master Corin Cadence, for unfilial behavior and abandonment of responsibility. Moments ago, you indicated that you would not be willing to withdraw from this duel. Does that remain your stance?”

Magnus inclined his head toward Sheridan, just a fraction. “It does.”

“Very well. In that case…” Sheridan turned to me, a hint of a playful twitch in the corner of their lips as soon as they were hidden from Magnus’ sight. “Master Corin Cadence, you have denied these accusations on grounds that your father…” They lifted a hand in a ‘wait’ gesture, then retrieved a paper from their tunic, “in your words, ‘routinely caused you grievous physical harm under the pretentious guise of training, which left you with visible scars and impairment’.”

Magnus’ eyes narrowed.

“That remains my stance, Adjudicator Theas,” I replied, referring to Sheridan by one of several applicable formal titles. “However, for your records of the event, I must correct you on my proper title. As this is a trial to be held beneath the goddess, it would be improper for me to utilize a terrestrial title when it is more properly superseded by my religious title, which is,” I pulled off the glove on my right hand, “Arbiter of Katashi.”

I flared my attunement in what a duelist might properly call a “flourish”.

Generally, flourishing your weapon doesn’t impress or intimidate anyone in modern dueling, since both the opponent and the audience are generally aware of the capabilities of everyone involved in advance.

But private duels for personal grievances were a different matter. I had no obligation to declare my abilities in advance—And thus, this was my father’s first real confirmation that I had a second attunement.

He’d had suspicions, of course. And plenty of people around the school knew that I had one. Maybe he’d gathered enough information from someone to have an idea…but from the flicker of doubt that ran across his face, he hadn’t been expecting this.

There wasn’t any chance the flourish would break his resolve, of course.

…Especially since when I’d visibly flared my attunement’s power, I’d done it at Carnelian-level.

“Well,” Father gave me a look of appraisal, “I suppose Sera spoke truly in her letters, then. It seems your disloyalty to your family is matched only by your betrayal of your country.”

My eyes widened, his sudden reversal sending me into a brief retreat. Even after years of Father’s disdain and punishment, I hadn’t expected a public accusation of treason to be among them.

But even that…that wasn’t as bad as…I turned to Sera, watching a smirk spread across her face. Then I turned back to Magnus, my hands trembling in anger. “N-no. There are numerous people who know how I earned that attunement — and there’s nothing disloyal about it. I assisted in the search for our visage, Father, andstopped a monster attack in the process.” A riposte, but—“Did you, now? Well, the fruits of your labor are clear for all to see. Tenjin is still just as missing as your loyalty.”

I hit only air. Still, his own reply was the same swing he’d attempted so many times that it was easy enough for me to simply stand out of the way.

I turned hastily to Sheridan. “I…can…can we get started?”

Sera’s smirk burned in the back of my mind. “Unfortunately, there are further formalities. You did notregister a specific weapon choice, stopping point, or position choice prior to the duel, and thus, they must now be discussed.”

“Corin can use anything he wants,” Magnus said immediately, taking the obvious position that he could not be threatened at my disposal.

My mind raced. “I…I have no objections to an unrestricted duel, provided that it is not to the death.”

Father snorted. “Of course not. What can you learn if you’re dead, child? Please. No need to be absurd. The duel is fought to incapacitation or surrender.”

“I…sure. That’s fine.”

Father gave me a quizzical look. “Truly? No argument for a duel to touches, perhaps with swords alone? I know that you’ve been trying to figure out how to work around your grandfather’s cane. A wise move, if too little. You would still lose with swords, of course, but perhaps I would be kind enough to allow you a point in a point-based match.”

I drew back slightly. “I, uh, no. It’s…”

This was a critical feint. I needed to look as if I’d stumbled, giving him a false opening. A show of weakness that he expected.

If I was fortunate, he wouldn’t see that my trembling hands weren’t as empty as they appeared.

“…I would, no, to incapacitation, not points, that’s fine.

But…weapons only?”

Magnus stared at me, then sighed, shaking his head. “… A coward to the end, then, if less of one that I’d expected. Disappointing.” With a sigh, he took a breath, and then said a critical word—“No.”

“That…that…” I raised a hand, then lowered it, defeated.

Dejected.

At least, that’s what he had to see.

“Please, Corin. Did your practice with an inferior Shaper show you truly how far out of your league you were?” He laughed. “Or was it your loss against your sister’s team without even reaching the finals of a child’s tournament?”

I shot another gaze to Sera. “You told him about that, too?”

She smiled. “But of course, brother. Unlike you, I value communication with Father. I told him about all of your training. All of your plans.”

“You…you…I can’t believe…” My shoulders slumped.

“I warned you, Corin. I want what is best for this family.

It’s a shame you won’t be a part of it much longer.”

“Don’t be too presumptuous, child,” Magnus gave her a hard look. “You haven’t assured your place yet, either.”

“But, I—”

Sheridan shook their head. “As amusing as your family drama may be, I’m afraid that regulations require us to proceed in a timely fashion.”

“Of course, Adjudicator.” Magnus straightened. “Was there anything further?”

“Positions and timing,” Sheridan replied.

“Right, right.” Magnus waved a hand dismissively. “I don’t care. The boy has been cowering long enough. Let’s get this over with.”

“I agree. A handshake start?” I offered.

Magnus scoffed. “Still looking to turn this into a sword fight?  Oh,  don’t  think  that  Sera  didn’t  warn  me  aboutSelyrian teaching you quick draw techniques. I invite you to try it, boy. Fine. We start the moment we shake hands.”

“You’re certain?” I asked, a strange intensity bleeding into my tone as my heart hammered in my chest.

“Yes, yes.” He waved his hand. “Try whatever you want.

It won’t matter.”

I closed my eyes, resolved. “…Okay.”

Three deep breaths. Three silent spells.

“Take your final positions,” Sheridan instructed us. We shifted just slightly.

“Combatants, ready? Bow to me.” We bowed.

“As this is a handshake start, you may begin the moment you shake hands. Good luck to you both and may the Goddess watch over you. You may approach.”

One step forward, then another. Then another.

Father’s hand came out to reach for mine — something that should have been an affectionate act twisted into the latest in a long line of aggressions.

But this time…My hand met his and closed tight— I cast another spell.

And in that moment, the House of Cadence fell.

Father must have felt the change. I didn’t know how subtle it would be — the effects were too profound, too far beyond anything in my test cases.

But as he pulled away suddenly, it was clear he knew I’d made a move.

He simply didn’t understand yet that he’d already lost the duel.

His hand flicked up in a classic gesture to conjure a Shaper box, a standard opening — and, of course, nothing happened.

I stood and watched him silently, saw the expression of confusion on his face, followed by a rapid correction. “Thesword. That hideous relic of Jerome Schmidt — you’ve done something with the void aura. A clever ploy, to amplify it enough to disable my attunement at close range, but—”

I drew my sword, the void aura flaring around it — and threw it at the ground.

“Nah.”

The sword stuck deeply into the ground, and for a moment, as the blade wobbled there, I wondered if Father would rush toward it. He had his own dueling cane on his belt, but if he’d realized that his attunement wasn’t working, maybe he’d try to rush for one chance he might see to even out the match.

But he made no such move. Instead, he darted to the side, raised his hand, and snapped his fingers—And once again, nothing happened.

I folded my arms and watched him. “Take your time, I’ll wait.”

His eyes flicked to Jerome’s sword. Again, I wondered if he’d lunge for it. I was in a comparatively vulnerable state, now. Folded arms and no sword wasn’t exactly a good dueling posture.

Instead, he stared at the sword in the ground, then, slowly, took a step back. And another. And another.

Then, in horror, he raised his right hand — his attuned hand — and trembling, he asked…“You…you…you did something to my attunement.” I nodded. “I did, yes.”

“But — an Arbiter. I’ve heard they can empower attunements, but…no. You’ve…you can’t have…”

“Can’t have what?” I took a couple steps forward, then with a wave of a hand, sent a surge into the mana strings connected to Jerome’s sword and jerked it back into my hand with transference mana.

Magnus flinched, taking a few hasty steps back. “You… you stole my attunement!”

“No, no.” I shook my head. “Although, I admit I considered it.”

That was when he charged.

It wasn’t a bad move, all things considered. I wasn’t in a great stance, since I was walking forward casually, and he’d fought me numerous times before. He knew my weaknesses in a close-quarters fight—Or at least he thought he did.

When he lunged at me, I smashed the dueling cane out of his hands with just a hint of extra transference mana flowing through my hand. Just enough to make the impact rattle him, not enough to cause any real harm.

I had to be careful, after all. One had to be very cautious when fighting an opponent without an attunement—I didn’t want to hurt him the way he’d hurt me. No, I just didn’t want him to hurt anyone else. Never again.

My sword came up to his chin.

“I didn’t steal your attunement. I never wanted to take anything from you.” I shook my head. “I didn’t destroy your attunement, either, although that did have an appeal. To break the thing that had caused me so much harm — that was something I daydreamed about for many years. But no, Father. That might have defeated you, but it would have given you an escape. With that, you could have simply conceded that your son had defeated you as a duelist and taken credit for training him to be your superior. I won’t give you that.”

I narrowed my eyes. “I beat you with my strength. With the mind and the power that you always dismissed. And I leave you not broken, but with more of a chance than you ever gave me.”

Accelerated Computation.

I flicked my sword down and made a single perfect cut.

Magnus Cadence’s glove fell into two halves, revealing his attunement mark—His Enchanter attunement.

When I’d touched his hand for the handshake and the duel had begun, I’d acted immediately, doing exactly what I’d planned—I’d taken every bit of training I’d had with altering sub- glyphs and done something both simple and terrifying.

I’d taken the entire sub-glyph structure of his Shaper attunement, wiped it out, and replaced it with an Enchanter set.

…And then I’d thrown in a timer to disable it for ten minutes. Not just so I could make him feel helpless. Not just so I could monologue a little, although I admit that those were factors.

No, it was necessary to allow his body to vent his existing mana before it would begin generating the new mana types, otherwise the transference mana generated by an Enchanter attunement would conflict with the mass of Citrine-level Enhancement mana in his body, possibly causing extremely dangerous effects.

I’d spoken truly — I didn’t want to destroy Magnus Cadence.

But you can bet that I’d done more than just disarm him—I’d done what Keras Selyrian had taught me.

I’d broken my opponent’s sword before he’d even knownthe battle had started.

When Magnus Cadence fell to the ground, utterly dejected, Sheridan Theas barely even had to call an end to the duel.

The outcome was as obvious as the tears that spread across my fallen father’s face.

