CHAPTER XXX – OLD AND NEW

Our home was subdued for days after that. Sera’s team had won the year’s dueling classes by default in the absence of their competitors. No one was happy about that.

Mary was direct with what had happened — their team had been ambushed by a dozen attackers while they were on the way back from participating in a Survival Match late the night before.

Team Skyseeker had been exhausted, already bruised, and nearly drained on mana — and they’d still beaten their attackers to the ground.

…But not without cost.

Kuro hadn’t made it. And Vermillion had been so severely injured that she was still in the hospital, undergoing emergency surgery to try to save her attuned arm, which had been half-severed.

When the authorities arrived at the scene, they found Mary the lone figure still standing on the battlefield. They arrested her along with everyone else, only releasing her the next day after a sufficient number of her attackers had confessed.

…Team Bloodline had, of course, been among the attackers.

Literally no one was surprised, but somehow, we’d all seen the signs and done nothing until it was too late.

I was surprised to hear that Team Bloodline, too, was being released due to “lack of evidence” of their involvement. Apparently, they claimed that they had also been attacked by the Sons of Valia, and that Mary was simply “confused”.

This was such an obvious lie that I could barely process it, until a seething Sera explained that Jeremy’s father was on the Council of Lords and heavily involved in advocating for a larger budget for Valia’s city guard forces.

Is there anything in this country that hasn’t been influenced by the hands of these xenophobic monsters?I couldn’t help but be more than a little bit bitter, both at myself and at the teachers who hadn’t done anything to stop the obvious threats. Or, at least, not enough.

If the Sons of Valia were killing people outright, that represented an escalation. Lord Teft took Mary’s statement to the class seriously, at least, and offered to escort her back to the hospital after he dismissed the class — but it seemed like far too little, too late.

We told everyone what had happened when we got back home. The atmosphere was a mixture of somber and furious.

Derek went out that evening, presumably for information gathering, reprisal, or both. His mood was dark both when he left and when he returned.

“There’s someone behind the scenes giving them power that shouldn’t be possible.” His right hand held a bloodstained bandage on his left arm. “I just fought a room full of people with two attunements. The local leader fled, but he had at least three.”

“Can’t be that many people with three attunements in general,” Sera noted. “Shouldn’t that narrow it down?”

Derek shook his head, wincing as his movement exposed another gash on his neck, still unbandaged. “I knew some of those people. They didn’t all have multiple attunements at the start of the year — I’m certain of it.”

“Artificial, then? We looking at an alliance with Farren Labs, or something similar?” I asked.

“Maybe,” he frowned, sounding doubtful. “If I had to guess, though, I think it’s something much bleaker.”

“…The removed limbs.” I shuddered. “But that would still require someone with the skill set necessary to move attunements. A Biomancer, or…”

“Another Arbiter.” Derek looked directly at me for a moment, seeming to evaluate something, then sighed. “…Or just someone else with an equivalent skill set. Foreign magic of a similar style, maybe.”

“Do you think the Sons of Valia would really work with a foreigner?” I asked.

Derek snorted. “If there’s any defining feature of the powerful, it’s hypocrisy. I’m sure they’d come up with some kind of flavorful excuse. ‘Clearly, this Artinian magic is acceptable because the goddess must have sent him to make us stronger’, or that sort of non-sense.”

“Is Artinia your best candidate for involvement, then?” Sera asked.

“No,” Derek admitted, “it’s a little closer to home. No confirmation yet, but I’ll let you know if I get anything solid. For now, just…be extra careful. These people are not to be trifled with. And whoever is pulling their strings…they have to be a real terror to be able to move that many attunements in this short of a time period, if that’s what they’re up to at all.”

I wasn’t satisfied by that brief explanation, but I didn’t know what to do or say, either. I was frustrated enough that I grabbed Mara one night to try to patrol the area and see if we could find anything on our own. If there was any Sons of Valia activity that night, we didn’t find it.

I felt useless, but at the urging of the others, I tried to ignore it in favor of getting back to work on the things I could help with.

There were only a few days left in the semester — and our true test was yet to come.

***Gathering our team for the final exams felt a little surreal.

I still felt more than a little trepidation in Jin’s presence at the best of times…and going into an exam with him was even harder. That said, he was still one of the strongest combatants we had available, and the rarity of his skillsetmade him extraordinarily effective in a challenge against other teams.

If I felt a little strange around Jin, I don’t even know how to describe how awkward I felt around Lute. I didn’t know him the way that I knew the others. We’d cooperated for the dueling class, sure, but that wasn’t anywhere near the same degree of exposure I’d had to the others.

I don’t think that was what really bothered me, though. Sure, familiarity was important, but I was struggling to get used to having a teammate that wasn’t human.

Looking at it objectively, Lute had never done anything that should have made me feel uncomfortable. Sure, he’d shown me a little bit more interest than most people had, but that wasn’t inherently a negative thing — I’d been flattered when Jin had shown me some immediate interest, after all. And I didn’t even think Lute’s interest was romantic. It was, so far as I could understand, more like I was simply involved in activities and carrying items that interested him. Being interested in people like that was, on the surface, completely normal.

So, what was the problem?Trying to break it down in my head, I think it came down to a couple factors.

First, I was operating under certain internal biases that I couldn’t easily dismiss. I didn’t have a problem with non- human entities — or, at least, I didn’t think I did — but having them attending school with us just felt…off. Like they didn’t belong there.

It was most pronounced with people like Satsuki. I felt horrible about it, but it was a struggle to resist my instinctive fear every time I saw her.

Was I wrong to feel that way? Definitely. We were attending an educational institution — there was no need to restrict that to humanity. I knew how much Researcher loved to  learn  and  share  information.  Why  wouldn’t  a  schoolbenefit from people like her, or even non-human entities with a less familiar viewpoint?And yet…I couldn’t completely turn off my feelings of wrongness about it.

Looking back, I think a part of it is that I unconsciously lump non-human entities into a single category, too. When I’d first seen Lute’s unusual hair and considered the possibility that he wasn’t human, I’d immediately made a mental connection with Mizuchi, and in spite of that connection being obviously wrong, I hadn’t completely shaken off that first impression bias.

Would it have been different if he’d been introduced to me as one of Keras’ relatives, rather than being a mysterious transfer student? Almost definitely. That just showed a flaw in my way of thinking, though. I needed to be more flexible in my thinking and more amenable to shifts in my impressions of people, but…knowing that and being able to actually act on it were two entirely different things.

It didn’t help that Lute still was mysterious. I didn’t know why he was at the school — not really. I didn’t know how powerful he was, either. He’d clearly been just playing around in dueling class. If he chose to attack our group, would the rest of us even stand a chance?Maybe thinking along those lines about Lute specifically was unfair. I’d been hurt by Jin’s betrayal, so some kind of mental calculations about our odds if we were suddenly backstabbed may have been reasonable, in some sense—But I wasn’t running those numbers for Patrick, or Sera, or even Mara. Was it fair that I was thinking about that for Lute and not the others?…Was it fair that I was more worried about Lute than I was about Jin betraying us a second time?Why did I feel so threatened?It wasn’t like I was any stranger to interacting with dangerous and mysterious people — even aside from Jin, I still lived with Derek Hartigan, and he was apparently somekind of international criminal mastermind. It sounded strange to think of it in those terms, but there you go.

And Sheridan Theas was about twice as mysterious and threatening as anyone I’d met — but I was growing to realize that I enjoyed that element of them. Which was strange in itself, and maybe a little unhealthy, but it was true.

So…all in all, the issue, was probably on my end, at least for the most part.

If I had questions about Lute’s goals…had I ever really made the effort to take him aside and ask those questions? He’d been a little bit evasive in conversation, but no more than someone like Keras. Less so, really. He’d told me that certain information was “restricted”, but I could have attempted to work around that, much like I’d learned to do with Researcher.

I suppose I just didn’t have the mental energy to make the effort. I had too many other things weighing on me — at times, even adding one small task felt like a crushing burden. That was especially true for anything that involved socialization.

So, for the moment, I just…had to suppress my biases, as best I could. I tried not to fixate too much on the subject as we got our group together. There was room for me to be a good team member in spite of any discomfort I felt at Lute’s presence.

Fortunately, it was easier to do that once we got into work mode. Our team met for breakfast — Sera considered it a team bonding activity — then headed to the train station.

We traveled along with Cecily, since we were still living together and it was convenient to leave as a group. She planned to meet her team at the destination. We didn’t discuss team plans around her, since there was a chance our teams would be matched against each other, but we didget her to check our current mana levels with the mana watch.

Well, most of us, anyway. Jin and Lute both turned down the offer, although Lute seemed fascinated by the watch itself.

Meltlake’s new training regimen had clearer benefits after the full length of a semester, even if those benefits weren’t quite as pronounced for us as they would have been for students without our existing advantages.

Cecily had hit 169 mana, which was noticeably more than I’d started the semester with in my own Enchanter attunement. From what data she’d gathered, that put her above average for the semester, but not by a huge margin. Virtually everyone was making rapid increases in mana, and if it continued on pace, we’d be seeing a graduating class of second years with an unprecedented level of Sunstones.

As solid as her mana level was, though, the rest of us were well ahead.

Patrick’s mana had surged up to 254, an increase of over a hundred points from where he’d started the semester. He was more than half-way to Sunstone — and I expected him to advance even faster now that he was wearing his Null Contract Gauntlet. I groaned at myself for failing to measure his mana at the same time I’d given it to him. My own mana pool would serve as a more reasonable baseline, since I’d only started wearing my own about a week earlier.

At 261 mana, Sera’s mana pool had finally caught up to and exceeded Patrick’s. I could see a hint of a smile at her lips at getting the results, obviously relieved that the natural advantage of her contact-based attunement had finally managed to catch her up after the damage she’d suffered to her throat in the middle of the last year. She still hadn’t completely recovered from her injury, but her mana was flowing clearly enough for her mana levels to be improving rapidly. I wondered if Patrick would pull ahead again now that he had the gauntlet, but it was too soon to say.

My own mana pools were both increasing on pace, but as expected, my Arbiter attunement was getting stronger faster. My Enchanter attunement lagged slightly behind my friends at 235 mana, which was a little annoying, but realistically, it was still exceptional compared to Cecily and most of the other Enchanters in our class. My Arbiter attunement had jumped to 305, which was only a sliver from hitting Sunstone at 360 — and an easy leap if I simply chose to overload my own attunement with extra mana or change my safe mana values in a fight.

…Not that I was planning to do the latter, of course. No, of course not.

Anyway, I was on pace to hit Sunstone in a handful of weeks, which was an incredible thing to say when I was only months into my second year of having an attunement. And with my newly-made gauntlet, I expected my advancement to come even faster.

Could I hit Citrine by the end of my second year? My current rate of progression would have me fall a little short, but with the gauntlet and a few other tricks…I wondered if anyone had hit Citrine that quickly before. Presumably, it wasn’t totally unprecedented — there were weird cases like people who had access to tons of enhancement elixirs, as well as older generations of attunements that worked completely differently with safe mana thresholds.

But even if it wasn’t completely novel, it certainly would be a major success if I could manage it.

…And I wasn’t even the closest one in my group to reaching that threshold. Not by a long shot.

Mara had hit 546 total mana — putting her at two points above my combined total.

I tried to console myself with the fact that, purely in terms of ratios, that meant I was actually catching up to her…if only barely. Her mana growth rate was just absurd, even without the enhancement elixirs that she’d been givenduring the winter break. I wondered if that was because her specific attunement benefitted more from Meltlake’s training routine than mine did, if it was a consequence of Guardian mana types just being inherently safer (and thus easier for the body’s capacity to tolerate), or…if she was just training that much harder than I was.

She’d certainly thrown herself into feverish training after Keras had left. Maybe she was taking his instructions to “follow him when she was strong enough” a little too seriously. I’d seen her challenging all sorts of people to sparring matches, and even participating in a couple more Survival Matches, which probably wasn’t a good idea…but it wasn’t really my place to say anything. Everyone dealt with grief in different ways.

With our mana levels figured out, we spent the rest of the ride chatting, or occasionally going off together to discuss a few small tactical ideas in Cecily’s absence. We simply didn’t have enough information to do much else — or, at least, I didn’t. Sera seemed to know more than she was saying, which wasn’t exactly a surprise. I wondered exactly how much she’d figured out in advance and how she’d done it, but it was the wrong place and time to ask.

The train ride to our test was a reasonably short one. We were heading to the Shining Meadows Training Facility just a couple hours to the north. This was an actual, fully-staffed Valian military base, but largely for the purposes of running large scale simulations and war games. It was one of the places we’d be potentially deployed after graduation based on our performance and specific skill sets.

Our “talking strategy” during the ride ended up mostly being Sera talking while the rest of us listened. “So, I’m going to go over some basics about what we’re going to be dealing with. This is probably familiar ground to most of you, but I know that some of you,” Sera looked directly at me, “have a habit of not looking up test details in advance.”

I rolled my eyes. That was absolutely untrue, except when it wasn’t.

…Like in this case.

In fairness to me, I had higher priorities. Like, you know, whatever I decided was a higher priority that day so I didn’t have to think about finals.

Sera ignored my response and continued her explanation. “Once we get to the base, we’ll be placed in a larger group. These groups tend to be from eighteen to forty-two people, depending on the specific activity, but they can be smaller or larger depending on the specific scenario we’re assigned. That means that while we’re going to be able to work together with each other, we’re also going to have to play along with the strategies of others. A major part of this scenario’s grading is going to be about how well our team coordinates with other teams. Make no mistake, however — winning is still the main thing we should focus on. There’s no substitute for victory.”

Lute gave a pleased smile at that comment, as if he was entertaining some kind of personal joke that the rest of us missed, but he didn’t say anything.

I may have been watching him a little too closely.

Sera kept talking. “Common scenarios resemble those in the scenario floors of spires, but generally tailored toward larger group sizes. Strong possibilities include fighting a single exceptionally powerful monster, escort missions for vulnerable targets, clashes between armies, capture the flag style scenarios, and sieges. There will very likely be several tests going at any given time. Ordinarily, we have no influence over which scenario we’re slotted into. My information tells me that it isn’t assigned in advance, in order to prevent that information slipping to teams ahead of time. Rather, the instructors present at the training facility will assign the scenarios to people shortly after they arrive by their own private criteria.”

Sera turned to Jin. “We should be arriving about two hours prior to our scheduled time slot. Your first assignment begins the moment we arrive — you are to determine which scenarios are being run that day, which instructors are running each of them, and anything you can about placement. From there, we’ll discuss what we can do to get ourselves slotted into an ideal test.”

“Not bad.” Jin nodded. “I’ll see what I can do.”

“Is that really allowed?” Patrick glanced worriedly at Sera, and then to me, as if I might intervene. I simply shrugged at him.

Sera smiled. “Intelligence gathering is a critical function in any military campaign. I can’t say whether or not investigating and attempting to skew the test placement is part of our expected behavior, but I will say that I sincerely doubt we’ll be punished if they find out we did it. And, given Jin’s abilities, I don’t think they will find out — unless, of course, the test is being designed around it, in which case we’re probably intended to do it.”

I wasn’t entirely sure I agreed with that last part. Having security measures for infiltrators at any military base was just common sense, and given our past history with Edria, having people on alert for Mesmers was a pretty basic precaution. Still…Jin wasn’t going to be the only one trying to gather information or skew the tests before they started. Most of it would simply be through social manipulation — people trying to chat up instructors or other students, or people with local attunements like Shadows trying to sneak around in more conventional ways. Given how our school operated, I agreed that it was more likely that such behavior would be rewarded rather than punished.

We did have a whole Spider Division, after all.

It occurred to me that I still didn’t know what division Lute had been slotted into…but jumping to the assumption that he was a spider simply because I hadn’t asked a basic question would have been folly. It also wasn’t much of aconcern even if he was one. I didn’t think it was likely that this test would involve spider sabotage — that felt like too much rehash of the last year’s exams. That wasn’t anything certain, of course, but I didn’t plan to prioritize a spider search unless we had a strong indication it would be necessary.

…And I suspected that I wouldn’t have to deal with it even if it was a part of the test, given Jin’s spider-hunting tendencies and Sera’s generally superior social modeling to my own.

Patrick didn’t look super happy about the intelligence gathering, but he didn’t make any further objections.

“What do you need the rest of us doin’ while Jin is skulkin’ about?” Mara asked.

“If you have a chance to chat up the other teams or otherwise assess them, do that. The more information we can get on the other teams in advance the better. I have basic files on everyone in our time slot, but those tend to have omissions, similar to how Corin’s doesn’t list certain extra abilities he possesses. They also don’t cover equipment.”

“How’d you get those?” I asked. “Are those public?”

Sera smiled. “Public? No. Accessible to the right people? Certainly.” She turned to Patrick. “And before you get too worried, I have confirmed that accessing personnel files for other students is expected behavior.”

“Confirmed how?” He asked, still sounding worried.

“I asked the Dean of Admissions. Checking with Meltlake would have been easy, too, but I didn’t want to bother her. She has more than enough to deal with.”

Patrick let out an exhausted sigh. “…You’re not kidding. She’s barely had any time for our training this year. But if you checked with one of the deans…yeah, that’s good enough for me.”

“It’s important to remember that even aside from our vaunted Spider Division, Valia is Tenjin’s nation, and we’reexpected to think our way through problems. Strength is valued, but so is strategy. We’re not going to get expelled for planning in advance.”

“Might be true for the papers on people, but sneaking around the base itself might be a little above and beyond,” Mara pointed out. “There could be military matters that are outside our test.”

Sera nodded in acknowledgement. “Technically true, but if they’re keeping anything like that stuff exposed in areas where students can reach it during a time period when students are actively roaming around for tests…well, that’s on them. I can’t imagine they’re not expecting students to sneak around. It’s just common sense.”

“If you say so.” Mara turned to Jin. “Just be careful, yeah?”

“Of course.” He tilted his head downward. “I’ll try to hide the bodies somewhere that can’t be traced back to us.”

We laughed awkwardly, except for Lute, who didn’t seem to get the joke.

“Any further questions or objections before we move on to some scenario-specific discussion?” Sera asked.

There was a brief pause, then she simply continued. “Okay. Here’s what we’re going to do if we get an escort mission…”

***We went over several different scenario options as the train ride continued, then finally, we arrived at the testing facility. After going through an identity checking process at the gate, we were let inside, then led down a few streets toward one of several large buildings.

The Shining Meadows Training Facility wasn’t much to look at from the entrance — there was a massive grey wall that stretched beyond my sight with guard towers near the gates, but it didn’t look particularly distinctive.

Once we went inside the gates, it was even more nondescript  —  just  paved  roads  and  a  bunch  of  largebuildings, not unlike another college campus. Most of the people around were in military uniforms, but that wasn’t much different from the academy, either.

I’d been expecting something a little more…fortress-like, maybe? More obviously defensible structures, larger numbers of obvious guards, more groups of people moving in obvious formations. That might have been more applicable in war time, but really, I’d probably just misread the style of the facility — or perhaps I just had skewed expectations about what a modern military base looked like in general.

Our guards pushed open the double doors to a single- story building and motioned us inside. The room was hundreds of feet long and maybe fifty feet wide, with the vast majority of it filled with tables and benches. Given the size and structure, I suspected it was usually used as a mess hall. I could see a few doors on the other side, likely leading into a kitchen area. Our escort departed the moment we went inside the room, meaning we were left to our own devices.

Or perhaps the nonthreatening appearance of the entry to the facility was calculated, much like Sera seemed to believe the entire scenario would be.

Immediately, I began to suspect that Sera was right about pre-test preparation being intentional…or, perhaps, that the test simply had already started. There were several groups of students already sitting around the room, as well as guards standing near the four exits, but not directly blocking them. There were also a couple academy staff members seated at a table across the room, seemingly having lunch. That might have been “real”, or they might have simply been placed there for students to approach for intelligence gathering and manipulation. Or, you know, both.

We spotted several familiar faces immediately, including Roland’s team…or most of them, anyway. I recognized Kyra,Desmond, Loria, and unfortunately, also Rupert Kent. The last member of their team was unfamiliar, but that wasn’t surprising, given that all the teams had expanded to six.

I wondered if we’d end up getting paired with them — it wouldn’t be unusual, given that we’d worked with some of them in the previous year’s finals. Cecily’s team was there, too, but I didn’t recognize most of them. They’d visited the house a few times, but I’d generally found reasons to be elsewhere for social engagements like that.

Mary Hawthorne was there, looking steadier than when I’d last seen her. To my surprise, the other survivor of her dueling team, Vermillion Rose, was sitting with her. Vermillion’s arm was still wrapped heavily in bandages, but they must have managed to save the limb in the hospital. Whether or not her attunement still worked…that was tougher to tell at a glance.

She looked more than a little pale. I wondered at the wisdom of letting her take the final exams in what was clearly still terrible physical condition, but I supposed there wasn’t really a good way to delay it.

I frowned when I realized that the two of them were sitting alone. Were they an entire team? Didn’t they need six members?Were…all the rest of their team members still in the hospital or dead?That was a sobering thought.

Looking around, I realized that there were other teams that looked short-handed, too…and I felt strangely fortunate that my own team had made it to the exams intact.

Patrick almost hadn’t made it, after all. If Keras hadn’t been with us…I shook my head. There’d be time for introspection on that later.

Sera was already heading to take a seat at a table near Roland’s team, which absolutely made sense. If our teamsended up being selected due to something like proximity, being paired with Roland was a good strategy—Except, of course, for Rupert Kent’s presence on the team.

Mara, to her credit, managed to sit down next to Sera without any obvious sign of hostility toward Kent. Either she’d moved on from her childhood issues with Kent or she’d simply managed to contain any aggression she felt.

I briefly glanced back toward the sparse remains of Mary’s team, wondering if perhaps I should have gone to sit with them rather than stacking everyone with Roland’s team, but I dismissed it. Keeping our team together was too important, both for practical reasons and appearances.

The rest of us sat down. Sera leaned between the tables to whisper something to Roland, which he nodded to, then relayed to Kyra.

I gave Sera a questioning look.

“Just offered an alliance if it’s an option,” she whispered. I caught Roland’s affirmative hand-signal, not dissimilar to ones we’d used the very first day of dueling class.

…Hopefully this alliance would work out better.

We didn’t have much more time to plan before a brown- haired man in a Valian military uniform strode into the room with an entourage and called everyone to attention. We stood and stepped to ready stances immediately.

“Good day, students. I’m Lieutenant Commander Vanih, and I’ll be organizing this group for the combat exercise. I’m pleased to see that you’ve arrived promptly. You’ll be given priority slotting over those teams that arrive later in the day.”

I could practically feel Sera saying “I told you so” for arranging that.

“At ease. You can be seated; this will be a long explanation.” We sat down, then Lieutenant Commander Vanih continued. “This exercise will be a historical recreation, albeit with some minor adjustments. You will besplit into two groups. Those of you who are currently seated on the left side of the room will be assigned to defense. Those of you on the right side will be assigned to the assault team.”

Defense, then. Good. That’s generally an advantageous position. Similar numbers of students on each side of the room. And we’re with Roland’s team, but…My eyes briefly met Mary’s, seated on the opposite side of the room. She gave me the slightest nod.

The officer continued. “This scenario is based around the last defense of the city once known as Daisen during the Six Years War.”

My confidence dropped rapidly.

I wasn’t an expert on historical battles, but even I knew the stories of the fall of Daisen. It was, after all, one of the battles that led up to Alaric Cadence’s fateful duel that won our family nobility.

…It had been a disaster. The city had held under the power of the Unbroken Queen for nearly a year of siege. Sabotage led to the city’s outer gates being opened from within, and even without that, the attacking force’s size was overwhelming.

The city was conquered and renamed “Zunyi”. Even the language of the natives had been stolen along with their former capitol.

It was the kind of fight that was modeled in Crowns with a hundred-point army trying to fight a thousand-point one — and that was probably an underestimate. It was toward the end of the war, and by that point, the armies of Edria had both absurd numbers and ridiculous support. Children of the God Hydra had marched with the army, serving as living artillery in their full-sized hydra forms.

Some even said the Emperor of Edria himself had participated, crushing the city’s inner walls with a single swing of Diamantine.

My mind swam with the implications. How were we supposed to defend against even a simulation of that? How could this possibly be considered fair?I could see similar contemplations happening in the minds of most of the people there — but not everyone.

Rupert Kent just laughed. “You sure you want to pick groups this way?” He jerked a thumb at Jin. “Shouldn’t slanty-eye over there be on the attacking team?”

The room went silent.

Mara looked like she was about ready to stand up when Jin put a hand on her shoulder and shook his head fractionally.

The Lieutenant Commander turned to Kent. “While I did give you permission to sit, I did not give you permission to speak. Your name, Sir?”

“Lord Rupert Kent.” Rupert folded his arms.

“Kent. There’s no room for racists in this exercise — or in our armed forces. Get out.”

Rupert blinked. “What? But…no. You must have misheard me. I’m Lord Kent, I’m—”

“Guards, escort Lord Kent to his new exercise in the brig.”

Kent paled. “You…you can’t…” He glanced at his teammates, pleading. Desmond looked almost like he was going to stand up, but Kyra pulled on his arm.

We watched Kent get dragged out of the room—But it was clear that not everyone present approved of the decision. There were immediate murmurs among the students, and a few of them even looked like they might say something before the Lieutenant Commander clapped his hands, a thunderclap bringing the room to silence.

“You may be silent. Now, listen closely.” He scanned the crowd, looking for further dissent. “You are being prepared for entrance into our armed forces. You will be fighting alongside people with different creeds, different religions, and different skin and eyes. On the field of battle, no matterthese differences, they are your brothers and sisters. You will learn that, or you will be dismissed. Am I understood?”

A murmur in reply.

“A ‘yes, sir’ would be appropriate at this juncture.”

We replied appropriately, although perhaps with less- than-military precision.

“It seems that the standards for teaching basic protocol have dropped since my time. No matter. You will learn, or you will fail. Now, to address the scenario further — the city of Daisen was, at the time of its fall, located in what was still known as the nation of Kelridge. This particular scenario will begin before the city’s walls are breached — but we will not be telling you how long before. It will be up to the defenders to learn the details of their situation and find ways to attempt to change the result of the siege. Attackers, you will be assigned tasks to ensure that history follows its course — or, perhaps, takes a turn that favors Edria even further.”

More details were relayed to us after that, mostly in terms of logistics for our transport to the scenario area. I paid the best attention I could, but I couldn’t help but wonder if the real risks of the scenario were outside of the scope of the test.

Kent had been a fool to speak openly about his feelings about Jin, but from the reactions of the people around us, an unfortunate number of students were sympathetic to his position…and perhaps better at subtlety.

When we walked into the city of Daisen, we had more than just sabotaged gates to worry about—We had the very real risk that the Sons of Valia stood among us, ready to strike at any time.

***Mara and Patrick walked at Jin’s flanks as our teams walked to the teleportation circle that would transport us inside the massive recreation of wartime-era Daisen. I didn’t know if the city had been recreated at full scale or if it was a reduced-size model, but judging from the sheer amount ofterritory that this base supposedly covered, anything was possible.

Jin, in spite of having tension in his shoulders, looked like he was filled with resolve. And I could see why—This scenario was almost custom tailored to him.

Kent, when looking at Jin, just saw a “foreigner”…and completely failed to see that Jin’s very house, House Dalen, was the same house that ruled the city we were heading to defend.

I’d made my own foolish assumptions about Jin before I’d really known him, too. Would I have made the same mistaken assumptions as Kent if I hadn’t had an explanation directly from Jin?I’d like to think that I would have eventually realized that the surname “Dalen” indicated a heritage that wasn’t associated with the invading armies…but there was no way to know. I wasn’t immune to my own biases, either. I’d have to work on being more conscious about that.

In the meantime, I had a supposedly-impossible scenario to win.

***We appeared on the rooftop of a colossal shell-shaped structure of ancient Dalen design. A glance at the thick plated walls of the building told me it was a fortress built to resemble a smaller scale version of the Tortoise Spire, which was commonly respected in Kelridge in spite of the closer proximity of the Phoenix Spire. Kelridge was still under Dalenos rule in this time period — though it wouldn’t be for much longer.

…Not if we failed, anyway.

Six teams were teleported together, although Kent wasn’t the only person missing from one of them. Some had already been shorthanded, and others had members pulled away for reasons that were unclear to me while we had headed to the teleportation pads. Evening out team sizes,maybe? I didn’t get an exact count of the other team, but we had a total of thirty-one people among our six teams.

There were no Valian military officers present with us — we were on our own now.

We were given a few more basic instructions, as well as updated shield sigils with the now-familiar teleportation shells to transport us outside of the area if the shield was depleted. I’d been permitted to keep my own full set of magic items for this scenario, including my own sigils, and I’d gotten permission to move my teleportation shell to the strongest of my sigils. That made me a good deal more “durable” than average, at least in terms of shield capacity, but I still didn’t see how I’d be able to handle the kind of opponents that this siege supposedly included.

…They couldn’t simulate God Beast children, could they?I thought back to what Sera had done in the arena and wondered if they might have simply asked some God Beast children to play along with us. That was a terrifying thought.

…What were the odds that they had the Emperor of Edria as a special guest for our training scenario?I shook my head. That one was just a little too farfetched.

I didn’t expect to meet the Emperor of Edria anytime soon.

Even a simulated Wielder of Diamantine would be terrifyingly powerful, though, and someone I couldn’t hope to fight.

So, I was completely on-board with Sera when she called all six groups together to form up and gave her initial assessment:“We can’t fight their army.” There was a brief murmur of discontent in the response, but she raised a hand to quiet them. “…Not directly. But we don’t have to. We know from historical records that this city fell at the time it did because of internal sabotage. It’s highly likely that this is going to be a part of the simulation. If we can identify and eliminate the saboteurs, we can delay the fall of the city — perhaps in time for Valia to send aid and change the course of the war.”

That got some nods. If there was anything that most Valians could agree on, it was that Valia was militarily superior to everyone else.

“To that end, our teams are going to need to do some immediate intelligence gathering. Maybe flip through some record books to see what date the walls fell—”

“Snow 11th.” Jin spoke, drawing everyone’s eyes immediately. Some nods, some scowls.

“Excellent,” Sera replied. “Thank you, Master Dalen. Given that Queen Dalen should still be in charge of the city at this time, your presence will be an incalculable benefit to our efforts.”

Jin’s lips twitched into a slight smile, obviously understanding what Sera was doing. “Of course. I’ll have to see if Gran-Gran is willing to entertain an audience.”

Gran-Gran?That was clearly an exaggeration if what he’d told me about his heritage was true — he wasn’t a prince — but I supposed most of the students there didn’t know that.

…And even the most awful of the Sons of Valia probably would likely hesitate to threaten an asset on the scale of “member of the ruling queen’s family”. They wanted power— and that required victory.

I didn’t envy Sera for trying to manipulate them to avoid any internal bloodshed, but I was incredibly glad she was there to do it. I hoped her strategy would work.

“Now, since Lord Dalen is on our team, we’ll attempt to make contact with House Dalen to learn whatever intelligence we can on the situation. Perhaps place ourselves close to the queen to try to prevent any assassination attempts, which could be a way the other teams will attempt to end the scenario early,” Sera smoothly continued. “We should also look at other potential methods the other teams could use to succeed at breaching the city without the internal sabotage. With the benefit of future  knowledge,  other  students  may  have  significantknowledge of this city’s layout and forces that people during the original siege didn’t. Cecily, you’ve studied Daisen’s history, yes?”

Cecily stammered. “Oh, uh, yes! I took the military history elective, and uh, did a bit of a project on Zunyi — that is, uh, Daisen — and…”

“Are there any other entrances aside from the gates?” “Oh, uh, I mean, there’s always the aqueducts, and thesewers, and…well, I mean, obviously, there’s the way we came in?”

I blinked.

Of course. The teleportation pad itself was outside of the scenario area, but the receiving end needed to have an anchor, and that meant it could potentially be used by other teleportation effects.

It was a clear vulnerability, but not one I would have necessarily thought of, since the origin point was outside the scenario itself. And from the looks on the other students’ faces, I wasn’t sure anyone else would have considered it, either.

…Certainly not as quickly, at any rate.

“Corin?” Sera turned to me. “Can the arrival point of a teleportation circle like this be shut down?”

I felt a smile coming across my face. “…It can be, but why shut down a perfectly good teleportation circle?” I reached into my dimensional bag and shuffled around.

“…Does anyone have, say, a comically large hammer?”

***I managed to avoid being there for Jin’s meeting with House Dalen by virtue of convincing everyone of the relative utility of stealing a gigantic teleportation circle.

The circle was too large to move in a single piece, but I was able to rapidly identify the runes in use with some help from Cecily. Then, with two teams to assist us, we broke the entire circle into manageable chunks and shoved them into my bag.

We’d rebuild it later…once we picked the best place for our enemies to teleport into the city. Right inside the jail, maybe. Just over a pool of lava would have been fun, but probably a smidge too dangerous if other students were going to use it.

We didn’t actually know that anyone on the other team would try to utilize the teleportation circle, but now, I was really hoping that they did.

Seeing their expressions would be priceless.

After “Project: Steal the Circle” was completed, our teams split off to other tasks. We had set rendezvous times and locations based on the limited information we were able to gather from the first few people who went into the city and investigated our locale.

For the scenario, we’d apparently been given the role of a mid-ranking defensive force assigned to the “Third Tortoise Tower”. We had broad latitude for how we defended that particular building, as well as more minor influence in general city defense efforts.

Our particular tower was designed to defend an “important treasure”, which Sera suspected was code for one of the royal heirs. I was hoping it actually meant literal treasure, since any treasure in a scenario like this was something I could potentially copy the runes off of, if it didn’t happen to end up in my pouch by the end of the battle.

…Still, we’d been forbidden from visiting the inner sanctum of the tower, except in absolute emergencies, so we didn’t have a clear answer.

Jin’s trip to the Royal Palace went…a little too well.

I’d known that his plan had been to go to the palace to and identify himself as a member of House Dalen that had just returned from the field. We suspected this would work similarly to a scenario floor in a spire, where the simulated people present would adapt to however we identified ourselves, within reason.

I’d also known that Jin bore a strong resemblance to one specific member of his family that I’d seen in a scenario floor that took place only two decades later — Mitsurugi Dalen.

I probably could have put together the plan that had been formulated in Lute’s mind along the way, if I’d considered it, but I wouldn’t have known it was possible. Not exactly.

I knew Keras could make replicas of the Sacred Swords. I knew Lute was related to them, too.

But somehow, in spite of all the pieces being there in disparate parts of my mind, I was caught off guard when I heard the announcement of a celebratory parade—One welcoming Jin Dalen, Wielder of Soulbrand, on his return to Daisen in their time of great crisis.

***Over the next few hours, Sera served as the primary point of contact for our six teams. We gathered information on likely locations for incursions to the city and sent teams to secure them to the best of our ability, setting traps in the absurdly spacious sewers and aqueducts, and sending teams to reinforce weaker spots in the walls that had been hit by heavy munitions fire.

I remained at the tower, too distant from the battle lines to hear the sound of artillery fire, but reportedly there were units firing on the walls near-continuously. There were barriers on the city walls to repel the fire, but every cannonball and ballista bolt drained their mana reserves. The city’s defenders had attuned dedicated to helping restore those shields periodically, but I wondered if I might be able to find a better solution — maybe something to upgrade the barriers to reflect projectiles rather than simply stopping them?It might have been possible if I had a vastly larger mana pool to draw from, but as it was, I doubted I could do morethan redirect one or two projectiles before any runes I carved into the walls were drained.

Maybe with help from the city’s defenders I could have managed a significant upgrade, but I didn’t know if I had enough time for that, and at the moment, I had a more immediate task.

It took close to an hour to build my latest enchantment — a teleportation beacon. Beacons were designed to be used in conjunction with anchors so that Wayfarers could easily identify the location of a usable anchor. Basically, it advertised the presence of an anchor at a long distance for people who were looking.

In this case, the purpose was simple — it was basically a giant sign that said, “Hey, you can teleport straight here”. Such a thing wasn’t necessary for our initial entry to the city, since we’d come in through a linked teleportation circle. This would let people outside the city know there was a way to get in from the outside.

I threw the finished product in my bag before fully charging it. I’d finish turning it on when we reached our destination and set everything up.

“Ready to go?” Sera asked. “Ready as I’m going to be.”

“Okay, here’s the spot you’re going to.” She pointed at a map of the city she’d acquired from one of the other teams. “Take Lute to watch your back and Desmond to handle rebuilding the circle.”

“Understood.” Sera generally was trying to keep teams working with their own members, but there were times when gaps in individual team skill sets necessitated some degree of mixing. As a Shaper, Desmond Vyers had earth magic, which our team generally lacked. Sera technically had some ability with earth through her updated contract with Vanniv — or through invoking him — but she was staying at our headquarters.

With that, I paid my first visit to the Royal Palace of Daisen.

The journey was a couple miles, but we took it at a brisk jog. Moving through the city was a much more haunting experience than remaining in the spire — civilians turned their gazes down as we passed, their faces gaunt and their expressions hopeless. Terrified.

They’ve been dealing with bombardment for weeks already, I realized. There are ways for attuned to generate fresh food and water, but maybe not enough to keep the entire city healthy. Even if the walls remain up, this is going to have a continuous cost on the populace.

I’d acquired a mid-level officer’s uniform as a part of the scenario preparations, which allowed me access to the palace and prompted salutes from the guards at both the inner gates — a second line of defense around the royal quarter of the city — and the palace itself. The respectful treatment from the guards made me marginally uncomfortable, but I responded in kind, hoping that Desmond or Lute would handle any social interactions.

More than one guard gave the sword at my hip a questioning or interested look. I’d chosen to wear Selys- Lyann openly, since it was actually allowed in this scenario— most of our enemies would be simulacra, not other students — but I was beginning to regret that choice. If I drew too much attention with the sword, I’d end up in a situation similar to Jin’s, drawn into politics that I wouldn’t be able to deal with.

I didn’t run into Jin while we were at the palace. When Lute inquired, he was told that the Wielder of Soulbrand was in a private meeting with the Unbroken Queen and her senior staff, which was simultaneously encouraging and terrifying.

Fortunately, Sera had sent ahead and gotten permission for our little plan. I had my reservations, but together, my makeshift team followed the instructions of the guards to anunderground passage. They unlocked several layers of gates as we took stairs into the dark.

I tried to contain my nervousness that we were the ones walking into a trap, but no such trickery emerged.

We reached the royal dungeons without incident…then found a cell large enough to rebuild the teleportation circle.

Before charging the beacon, I set up a few defensive and warning enchantments on the cell. I disabled those temporarily, setting new activation conditions.

Then, I began to deploy my void emitters around the chamber, disabling those as well and changing their own activation parameters.

Finally, I reactivated the circle and beacons. Lute helped provide the mana for it, fortunately, which helped save me from using all my batteries at once.

I debated seeing if Lute could reshape the void emitters and other enchantments to hide the runes entirely, but it was too likely to disrupt the enchantments. I needed to read more about doing enchantments inside objects at some point, but it wasn’t the right time.

Then, I rapidly led everyone upstairs. Guards were ordered to wait at the top of the stairs, but not in the room itself.

“I’m not sure I understand this whole setup,” Desmond frowned. “This stuff is all off, except for the beacon and the circle?”

“It is for now. The void emitters would disable the portals, and there’s a chance that scrying on the location would show the defensive enchantments. Right now, this place just looks like a dark, unguarded room to anyone who scries on it. Once they see what looks like a location inside the palace that they can teleport to, hopefully they’ll send a group in. The portal’s activation is linked to the other items around the room. First, the void emitters will go off one second after the portal activates, blanketing the whole area in void. The void emitters will turn off after three seconds, then thebarriers will pop up and the alarms will sound, alerting the guards, who will both notify us and investigate.”

“How much of an impact is a few seconds of void mana really going to have?”

“Tough to say. Even with six emitters, if they have anything like my own layered sigils, it won’t do much. But if not…”

We got our answer about four hours later, at least in part, when a message spell reached Sera that the trap had been triggered. Then a second message, just a few minutes later.

The first was simple enough — trap sprung. The second was more confusing—No one had been found in the trap. A search was being conducted for the missing infiltrators.

That was alarming, and we ended up deploying Cecily’s team to investigate the room. I warned them to get out immediately if they saw the portal activate…which proved prescient, as the portal activated a second time while Cecily’s team was searching for the infiltrators.

Cecily reported back with an explanation—Her team had withdrawn as soon as they saw the portal flash. Even then, they’d been close enough that they’d been clipped by the void emitters, and two team members had their shield drained nearly to empty in an instant.

…But while they’d narrowly escaped, the team that appeared in the circle hadn’t been so fortunate.

Three seconds of six emitters, it seemed, was more than enough to drain a standard shield sigil—But not quite enough to drain the shells attached. Meaning that, as the infiltrators blinked in the dark, they were teleported right back out of the area by their shield sigils failing.

An entire team eliminated without a single sword swung.

…And, as Cecily investigated further and found no sign of the previous infiltrators, it became more obvious that they’d been the second group that had been eliminated in thatway. A Diviner checked the room afterward, reporting that the first group had likely only been three people — but even so, our trap had been more than successful.

Nine students down. Twenty-something to go.

***Our enemies weren’t tricked a third time. The third time the portal flashed, it wasn’t a team that arrived on the teleporter — it was a bomb.

A massive, non-magical bomb.

Predictably, my void emitters didn’t do anything to it. My barriers might have, but the bomb detonated before they had a chance to activate.

The colossal detonation ripped out a chunk of the lower portion of the royal palace. Two students were still investigating the area nearby — not close enough to be hit directly, but underground while the rooftop of the dungeon collapsed on top of them. The falling debris was enough to break their sigils, taking them out of the test immediately.

The guards we’d placed at the prison entrance had no such protection. When we dug out their bodies, it was hard to believe they were just simulacra, not ordinary people.

I hoped that meant they hadn’t felt any pain as they’d been crushed, but I knew the answer.

We set a team on excavating both the bodies and the remains of the teleportation circle itself. The circle and beacon had been broken, as had most of my periphery enchantments. I ensured the circle was completely unusable, then worked with the others to disassemble it and toss the remains in my bag.

We wouldn’t be trying that trick again. Now that they’d seen it, it was more likely to cause us further harm than help.

I retrieved my void emitters. They were a bit scratched, but functional. Those, at least, I could plan to use again.

***Jin was practically hyperventilating when our team finally met up again that evening.

“I do not have a Soulbrand.”

Lute laughed. “I know, I know! We’ll get you one, okay?It’ll be a good Soulbrand, I promise! Right, Corin?” “Right, of cour— wait, hold on, what?”

Lute smiled. “You helped Big Brother make a copy of Dawnbringer. You can help me do the same with Soulbrand.”

“…I mean, maybe? I don’t know the runes for that one.” “Oh, no problem. I do, I’ll teach them to you.”

“…And I don’t have fire mana. Do you?”

Lute shook his head. “Minor issue. Patrick can handle that, or Sera can upgrade her contract with Vanniv, or—”

“Okay. I get it. But is that really going to convince people? And is it…really okay for us to be doing that?”

“Why not? Akari wouldn’t care. Honestly, she’d probably be tickled silly.”

“…What about the physical sword itself?”

“I can handle that. I’m not as skilled with metal as some of my siblings, but I can do it. Patrick, are you in?”

“Are you kidding? I get to help make a Soulbrand? This is the best day of my life.”

By the time we got to the metal-melting stage, even Jin couldn’t keep brooding.

And when he finally hefted the massive greatsword in the late hours of the evening, Jin looked every bit the hero that the stories made the wielders out to be.

He was testing the sword’s magic on the rooftop when we heard a massive detonation in the distance—The parades would have to wait.

One of the city’s outer walls had been breached.

***We’d checked the current date. It was two days too early for the saboteurs to strike the gates, at least from a historical perspective.

Cecily had remembered the likely identities of the saboteurs from historical documentation and checked them with a few other people with historical research backgrounds. Then, they’d gone after the saboteurs and had them arrested.

…But while we could change the scenario, so could the other team. And this blast hadn’t come from the gates.

A hundred-yard-long section of the western walls had simply crumpled, as if crushed by a gigantic fist. Even from a distance, the scale of the attack was simply awe-inspiring. Atop our tower, I could hear it — and see it — from miles away.

Virtually no human could manage an attack of that magnitude. Meltlake, sure, but the number of people at her level of power could be counted on a single hand.

Breaches of the walls had occurred during other points in the siege, but one of this scale…well, it was a problem, to say the least.

Even if there wasn’t a fifty-foot-tall hydra crashing through the breach straight into the city.

“…That’s a problem,” I mumbled.

“Corin Cadence, Master of the Obvious,” Sera bequeathed me with a noble title as she rolled her eyes. “Our core orders remain — we need to protect this building. That’s the top priority.”

“…Is it, though? That’s our priority within the scenario’s story, but—”

“No arguing. We have six teams. Some of them will undoubtedly go to fight the hydra, which is fine. Jin, if you want to fight the hydra with that new sword of yours, that might be good for the city’s morale, but—”

“I do not, in fact, want to fight the giant hydra.”

Mara punched her fists together. “Wouldn’t mind a shot at it myself, if we’re getting offers.”

“No. I need you here. You’ve been studying barrier magic, yes?”

“Still no good at it, but I could throw something together.

Why?”

“Work with Corin enchanting the inner door. Whatever the treasure is in here, we’re not losing it. I’m going to throw some message spells to other teams to get them rallied into strategic positions. I’m not a Wayfarer, but I can manage basics.”

“…The queen,” Jin suggested. “She’s going to be the primary target.”

“I put a team on it, but if you want to support them, that would probably still offer some morale benefit.”

Jin nodded, tipped his head, and then set off toward the palace.

“…Are we really sending Jin alone?” I asked.

“He’s a Sunstone-level Mesmer. He’s not going to get caught unless he wants to.”

I nodded, but I still didn’t like it. Splitting the party was, as a general rule, considered a bad idea — but I supposed that with a miles-large city, we couldn’t treat it quite like a standard spire level.

“Should I go fight the hydra?” Lute asked.

Sera evaluated that for a moment. “…Could you beat it?” “Oh, sure. But I think I know what you’re planning to do next, and I could help with that. I have the right manatypes.”

She raised an eyebrow.

It wasn’t often that people could figure out Sera’s plotting before she explained it — she was generally pretty good at keeping ahead of ordinary people with her schemes.

But Lute wasn’t exactly an ordinary person, was he? “Very well. If you’re willing, I’d certainly value some extramana, but I haven’t decided if we should deploy it here or at the royal palace.”

“I concur with your earlier assessment,” Lute replied. “This is a more immediate target, given that the royal palace is still behind the inner walls. We are not. It is likelywe were sent here for a reason. It’s possible this location is unimportant –- a decoy — but even if it is, we can make it important. Put a target on it, attract attention here, and then defeat anything comes our way. If we’re lucky, maybe they’ll have something stronger than that hydra that could offer me a challenge.”

…That was the most Keras-like I’d heard him sound.

Maybe they were more closely related than I’d realized.

I turned to Sera. “…What’s this plan of yours?”

“It’s very simple, Corin. We have a perfectly nice facsimile of the Tortoise Spire here — but it’s just a tower right now. How would you like to make it into a dungeon?”

“You don’t mean…”

“Let’s go inside for this, shall we?”

Sera led us downstairs, through several floors, to stand in front of the massive iron doors that supposedly led into the inner sanctum we were intended to protect. Then, she clapped her hands together.

“Transcendence Gateway Crystal, I summon you.”

A massive crystal appeared, floating in the air in front ofus.

[Greetings,	my	Summoner,	my	marked,	allies…andhonored blade of victory.]Lute offered a nod in response to that last remark. “Hey.

Been a while.”

[Indeed it has.] There was a pause. [It would appear that a battle is already in progress. Shall we begin?]“Oh, let’s.” Sera grinned. “This is going to be fun.”

