PREVIEW CHAPTER – EDGE OF THE WOODS

My world began with a single cut.

I lowered my stance, gripping my sword tightly, and pronounced my attack. “Eight-fold Dragon Obliteration Strike!”



My sword came upward, tearing through the air. The dragon was defeated in an instant, freely spilling its precious lifeblood.

As the dragon fell, I took a breath. Victory had come with a single strike, but nevertheless, I couldn’t shake being nervous for what was to come.

She rushed to me with a smile, wearing an over-large tiara and an ill-fitting dress. Her strawberry blonde hair was askew, no doubt from the horrifying conditions of her capture. “You’ve defeated the dragon, noble hero.”

“Only for you, princess.” I knelt in front of her. “My life is devoted to your service.”

Her expression shifted in an instant. “Serve me?... Yes, perhaps I might allow that. But there is something you should know.”

I turned my head upward toward her. Would she confess her love? Or perhaps tear my heart asunder by claiming she was already sworn to another knight, or a handsome prince?“You see, brave hero...” She brought her hand with a smirk. “The dragon was not my captor. He was merely fortunate enough to be my previous servant.”

My eyes widened. “But...then why...”

“A test of your abilities, dear knight.” Her eyes flashed, and she outstretched her right hand. A sword appeared in her grip. “And now I’ve seen through your ultimate technique.”

Her sword whipped downward. I raised my own to block, feeling a jolt of pain down my arm on impact. My handtrembled at the surprising force of the blow.

I scurried backward, barely managing to stumble to my feet before the next swing came. I parried again, but the force of the blow nearly snapped my sword and sent a tingling sensation through my hand and wrist.

She’s too strong, I realized. I dodged the next attack rather than parrying it and attempted a counterstrike, but she was too fast. She stepped out of the way effortlessly, then batted my next swing aside with a bare hand.

“Why?” I stammered again, incoherently.

She paused, stretching out an open hand. A glowing ball appeared in her palm. “Princess. Maiden. Worst of all, damsel. Such despicable titles. Do you know what would have happened if I had stayed at home, and been a good princess? I’d be married off to some fat duke twice my age. Perhaps a foreign prince if I’m lucky and well-behaved.” She shook her head. “No. I’ll have no part in that. If this world wants to control me, I’ll control it instead.”

Her hand snapped shut around the sphere of light. The orb fractured, then spread in a gleaming pattern down her arm. The weave of lustrous light might have resembled scales to the unfamiliar, but with my trained eye, I recognized it as interwoven leaves.

I winced as I recognized the Golden Raiment Technique. It would reinforce her body, further increasing her strength and durability, which already far exceeded my own.

Before, she’d nearly snapped my sword in half. With that technique active, I didn’t think my blade could handle one more contact with hers.

Still, I couldn’t give up. “That’s Ashen Lord talk and you know it.”

“Is it, now? Hm.” She smirked. “Hadn’t occurred to me. But, if that’s what you want to call a woman with ambition, well...” She raised her sword. “You may kneel once again, before your new Ashen Lord.”

She swung. I dodged.

Her blade impacted the ground, splintering stone on contact. My eyes widened. If that had hit me...

I drew in a sharp breath and focused. I’d seen her fight before. I knew her moves. If I could just get in a single clean strike, maybe to her wrist...

She swung again, horizontally. This time the wind pressure from her swing, even without a technique, was enough to knock me back and off-balance.

But when she lunged to follow up, she over-extended herself.

There.

I swept upward, aiming for her wrist as planned. It was a well-executed attack, deliberate and fluid.

She batted my blade aside with casual ease.

And, my well-worn sword cracked apart on the impact, just as I’d feared.

Left with only half a weapon, I stumbled backward again. I raised it in front of me, trying to think, search for any weakness. I knew the truth, of course.

She was too strong.

But I never let a little thing like certain defeat stop me. “Do you yield, hero?” She leveled her weapon at me. “Ican promise certain rewards, if you would swear your allegiance to me. I believe half the world would be the traditional offer?”

I glowered at her. “I wouldn’t be much of a hero if I agreed to those terms, would I?”

“Weren’t you ready to kneel and swear your fealty just moments ago?”

My hand tightened on the grip of my broken weapon. “That was, uh, different. I thought you were...”

“Vulnerable? Compliant?” She stepped forward, her sword pointed straight at my heart. “Yes, I can see now what you wanted. Easy victories, a vapid bride, and an adoring populace cheering your name. Perhaps they’d write stories about you.” She tilted her head downward. “A pity. I hopedyou’d be different from all the others. Ah, well. Dragons and heroes are both easily replaced.”

I saw the moment she shifted the weight of her back foot, preparing to lunge.

With half a sword, my best option was probably to try to evade again, maneuver, and flee the scene. Her reinforcement technique would not last indefinitely, and I was a fast runner.

But if I was a hero, I couldn’t think in those terms. I would face my enemies head-on, even if it meant certain death.

She lunged.

I didn’t evade. I didn’t block.

I lunged at the same time, knowing that she’d hit me. If I angled my attack just right, I could take her hit and still land a more serious injury in return.

What was victory without sacrifice?Her eyes widened in surprise as she saw my move.

She was still faster than I was, but this time, it worked to my advantage. She interrupted her own attack, pulling her blade backward for an awkward parry.

I swept upward, meeting her sword with my broken one. In that moment, I envisioned with perfect clarity what I wanted to happen.

My weapon shimmered for an instant, surprising us both, and passed cleanly through her blade.

A moment later, her sword fell into two neatly-severed pieces. And, a heartbeat after that, I saw a thin cut spreading across her cheek.

Her eyes widened again.

I panicked a little. “Oh, ancestors. Ana! I’m so sorry!” I dropped my “sword”. It was, of course, actually just a stick.

Ana dropped the other half of her wooden sword, raising a hand to her cheek and the wound spreading across her face. When she pulled her hands away, she looked almost comically shocked. “What—”

“I’m so sorry!” I glanced around, looking to see if anyone was watching. There were some other kids at the park, but no one seemed to have noticed what had happened yet. No elders nearby, fortunately, or I’d be in serious trouble.

“You...” Ana turned, appraising me, then burst into laughter. “Oh, ancestors! Don’t apologize!” She wiped her bloodstained hand on her dress, then rushed forward with her arms wide. “You finally woke up! I’m so happy for you!”

I widened my own arms to receive her hug, but I had to be cautious when I pulled her in. Not because of her strength, although that still was a risk if she squeezed me too tightly. No, because of her jagged wings that poked out of the back of her dress. She always forgot about how easily the blade-like wings could cut me. “Thanks, Ana. Are you okay? Maybe we should go to the spring and get you some healing water for that cut.”

She snorted, pulling back. “Oh, it’s fine. Don’t be such a baby. It’s just a scratch.”

It wasn’t just a scratch, but it didn’t seem to bother her much. Injuries usually didn’t. One of the advantages of her essence development level, I supposed. Or perhaps just a consequence of her particular faerie heritage.

Ana raised a hand, a glowing sphere appearing in her hand again, then concentrated. It reshaped itself, stretching out, and then shifted in color to white. In a moment, it had solidified into a bandage. She shoved it a me. “You can wrap me up, though, if you’re so worried.”

I accepted the bandage and lifted it up, pressing it against the wound to stop the bleeding.

“Ow! Not so hard! Geez!”

“Sorry. Gramps taught me that you’ve gotta apply pressure to stop the blood from flowing.” I held my hand against her face for a while. Ana tapped her foot impatiently. She’d never been good at staying still for more than, well, any time at all.

After a few minutes or so, it seemed like the blood flow had slowed down. I didn’t have to wrap the bandage around her face; she’d managed to conjure one with adhesive on the edges, which was impressively complex for someone our age. Other faeries manifested essence powers at a young age, but Ana was advanced even by faerie standards.

“I’m going to get in so much trouble,” I muttered.

“Bah, you’ll be fine. I’ll tell your grandfather it was my fault. Kind of was, I flipped the script on you a little.”

I laughed. “Yeah, what was with that evil overlord monologue?”

“I wanted to surprise you! And you know I can’t stand it when a princess just sits and waits to be rescued.”

I snorted. “I was a little surprised you told me you were going to play a ‘princess’ today. I figured the hero-and- princess motif was just kind of a frame for you to make use of that guy.”

I gestured at the now-deceased “dragon” on the ground, still leaking “lifeblood” from my “ultimate attack”.

I’d never actually seen a piñata before. I’d heard of them, but they weren’t a local custom. They were more of a human thing, as far as I understood, and specific to certain human cultures that were far away from our forest. Ana had arranged it as a surprise for me, since she knew I loved both hitting things with swords and eating candy.

It must have been difficult for her to arrange. She’d probably conjured the dragon piñata herself, but she couldn’t make candy. Anything edible was beyond her abilities, at least for the moment — she hadn’t developed her essence in that direction. And human candy wasn’t easy to come by in the middle of our forest home. Humans were not allowed within our borders, and Ana couldn’t leave — she was bound to this place even more closely than I was. The vast majority of faeries never left the woods, either due to their particular limitations — being bound to a specific tree, lake, or that sort of thing — or in the cases of faerieswith less restrictive bindings, a general distaste for humanity.

That meant she’d probably bribed one of vanishingly few non-fae entities that traveled back and forth from the woods.

Oh, I should probably note that “fae” and “faerie” aren’t quite the same thing. There’s some argument, even among scholars, about what the distinction should be — but the way I was raised was to use “fae” as a broad category and “faerie” to refer to a specific subset of fae species. All faeries are fae, but not all fae are faeries — at least, the way I was taught. These are both human terms, rather than fae ones, anyway. They have their own languages and terms and tend to refer to individual species — or political courts— rather than the same type of human-made categories that we use. Unfortunately, those don’t translate well, so… human terms it is, for this story, at least.

Anyway, there weren’t a lot of non-fae in the woods that could have helped Ana out.

The Witch of the Woods, maybe, or Uncle Eiji. Potentially some of the witch’s older children, if they were currently allowed to leave the woods. Regardless of the source, it would have cost Ana significantly, we always tried to do something impressive for each other for our Name Days.

My Name Day was technically the next day, but we had a tradition of celebrating across a three-day period rather than just on the day itself. I wasn’t sure if that was actually a faerie tradition in general — they did like to do things in threes — or just a local one.

I held my hand against her face for a while longer. She bled through the first bandage, conjured another, and I replaced it. “...We should probably go get you cleaned up before something smells blood.”

The fae were the masters of the wood, but they were hardly the only creatures that lived in our home. And forsome particularly unfriendly beasts, the blood of a fae child was the hint of an enticing meal.

“Ugh. Fine. But candy first?” She gestured at the fallen dragon.

“Candy first,” I agreed. “But, uh, maybe conjure us some towels? We have blood all over our hands.”

Ana grinned. “I don’t know, I think it looks kind of cool.” “It’s actual blood, Ana. That’s disgusting.”

“You’re disgusting.” She stuck her tongue out at me.

***We spent some time cleaning up with conjured towels.

With a gesture, she made them vanish, blood and all. “That’s still really impressive,” I noted.

“Thanks! I’m getting better at it. Couldn’t make wet towels a few months ago, but now, it’s pretty easy.” She smiled, kneeling down and picking up the piñata.

“…Where do your conjurations go when you dismiss the spell?”

She blinked. “What, the prospect of candy put you in a magic theory mood?”

“Just was wondering if you have a pile of bloodstained towels off in your shrine somewhere now.”

Ana snorted. “Well, that’s an image. To answer your question…no idea!” Ana shook the piñata with one hand, pouring candy into another. The dragon’s head tore further as she shook it, nearly falling off. “You really mangled this guy, Mr. Hundred-Point Dragon Killing Whatever.”

“Eight-Point. Hundred-Point would have been really excessive for a dragon of that size. Not to mention a little over-the top.” I winked at her. She laughed.

“Everything you do is over the top.”

I raised an eyebrow at her. “This coming from the new Ashen Lord Ana, First of Her Name.”

“Point taken. But, uh, say that again. It sounded nice.

Maybe make it clearer how much you worship me.”

I rolled my eyes. “Ashen Lord Ana, First of Her Name, defeated by—”

She smacked me with the piñata, spraying more pieces of candy into the grass. “You did not defeat me!”

“I mean, I pretty much did. I broke your sword.” “I broke your sword first!”

“Well, I broke your sword better—”

She tried to tackle me, but I managed to step out of the way in time. She telegraphed her lunges too much.

She let out a growl, spinning around.

I raised my hands in surrender. “Okay, fine. We’ll call it a draw for now. We can have a rematch after candy.”

Her eyes narrowed...then her face brightened right back up. “Deal.”

We indulged ourselves in far, far too much candy that day.

That brought some sweetness to contrast the bitterness of what my Name Day meant.

In a few hours, I’d be thirteen years old. I was still so far behind.

Fae children had the first sparks of essence when they were born, sometimes manifesting sorcerous abilities before they even opened their eyes.

My childhood playmates were, like Ana herself, almost exclusively fae. They were the primary populace of our home, after all.

…But I wasn’t one of them.

Probably, at least. I wasn’t quite sure what I was.

Gramps, my caretaker, looked like what I would have called an ancient and wizened human man…but humans weren’t allowed in the forest. Not after the war. It was possible he was an exception, but he dodged every possible question on the subject with such evasiveness that I’d often joked that “dodging” was his favored essence type.

(That wasn’t actually too far from the truth.)As far as I could tell, I physically resembled a human more than anything else. That wasn’t particularly telling — some fae looked almost identical to humans, like certain courtly fae subspecies — but I did have on unfortunate human-like trait. I wasn’t born with the ability to utilize essence, at least not in the same way that my fae companions did.

I did have something weird going on with my right hand— a strange mark that I’d identified as a kind of seal. It was plausible that might have implied I had some kind of essence in my right hand that I’d been deliberately prevented from using, but species that were born with essence didn’t tend to have it in their hand. For most species, their first Dianis Point — a core of essence that serves as a power source for techniques — was their Heart Point, Breathing Point, or Viewing Point. Those were located in the chest, throat, and forehead, respectively. There were Dianis Points in the hands — the Sword Point in the main hand and the Shield Point in the off-hand — but I’d never heard of anyone being born with a completed Dianis Point in one. And certainly not with a seal.

The most likely explanation was that the seal wasn’t exactly on a standard Dianis Point, but rather on something called a bloodline ability — a trait that people from specific powerful heritages were born with. These bloodline abilities could manifest at birth or much later in life, depending on the specific ability. I’d long imagined the possibility that I was descended from the bloodline of one of the heroes that had defeated the Ashen Lord, the fiend that had nearly conquered the entire continent, but that was…unlikely, to say the least. There were numerous bloodlines out there and the vast majority of them were much more mundane. Moreover, being a member of a hero’s bloodline would have been celebrated, not sealed away with the constant implication that I had some kind of forbidden power.

The more likely answer was that I was a part of some kind of disgraced bloodline, or simply a family that had taken to gathering essence of a type that was dangerous to incautious children. Or maybe it wasn’t a bloodline ability at all. I knew there were other possibilities — a spiritual bond to another creature, for example, or a property of a species I wasn’t familiar with.

Maybe Gramps will tell me more about it, now that I’ve finally awakened my first Dianis Point…but I doubt it. Either way…at least I can finally start catching up to Ana and the others.

My first Dianis Point is in my chest. My Heart Point. That’s similar to how a human develops, so…that’s one more point of evidence that I’m something related to humans, at least.

By human standards, developing a Heart Point at thirteen was fairly advanced. Somewhere in the fourteen to seventeen range was more typical, but it was highly variable. Children that had resources shoved at them from a young age could awaken their Heart Point in early childhood, but it was difficult to advance beyond that until the late teens. The body took time to acclimate to essence, and no matter how much power you tried to shove into it, someone’s advancement speed was limited by their body’s acclimation rate. There were tricks to working around that, and I’d always been very interested studying those, but Gramps had kept me from trying too many of them. Now that I’d achieved Clarion-level, though, I hoped to start experimenting more.

If I had human peers, I probably would have felt pretty good about myself, but Ana had three awakened Dianis Points already. She was nearing her second full level of essence development, the Scarlet level, and I’d only just reached the first.

I’ll go tell Gramps about this…then it’s time for some training. Lots of training. All of the training.

At that time, I could think of little that I wanted more than to grow strong enough to rival Ana. Thirteen-year-olds can be pretty single minded. They’re almost as bad as adults.

You might think I was being childish for indulging in such fantasies, or playing hero-and-princess games at that age.

That’s nonsense.

There’s nothing stronger than a properly sharpened imagination.

I mean, other than maybe that one magic sword that can cut through concepts, like ambition and time. That’s just...unfair.

Anyway, I consider a healthy imagination to be a useful asset, even now. And as important as it is for anyone, it was doubly so for Ana.

It was one of her essence types, after all.

As I bent down to pick up the (thankfully individually wrapped) pieces of candy that dropped out of the piñata, she conjured a wicker basket. Then, without pause, she ducked down and conjured a pair of chairs for us to sit in.

I’d seen her use her essence a hundred times before, but I always marveled at it. If an outsider had been watching us, they probably would have, too. Casually conjuring objects wasn’t something ordinary children could manage, even among the fae.

But Ana had a special heart — the heart of a sword. A very special sword.

As a xiphiad, Ana was bound to a weapon, much like a dryad was bound to a tree. Her sword-like wings were the clearest visual hint of this, but if one looked closely, they could see a metallic sheen to her strawberry blonde hair and golden eyes.

Ordinarily, the main “tell” for a xiphiad was the sword itself…but that wasn’t with her. Ana’s sword was sealed deep within a shrine in the center of the forest, awaiting a worthy champion that could claim it.

Obviously, I planned for that champion to be me…but there were complications.

Ana’s full name was the same as the weapon she was bound to. Anathema, better known as the Bane of All Things, The Greatest Weakness, or sometimes the “Dungeon Sword”. While many swords had essence cores, much like monsters, Anathema was unique — it was powered by a dungeon core, a type of crystal that was capable of creating monsters, items, and terrain.

It was for this reason that Ana herself wielded such formidable powers. Born with a connection to a dungeon core, her essence abilities were naturally geared toward conjuration.

…And she was bound to use those abilities to stop anyone from claiming the weapon in her shrine.

If I wanted to free Ana, I had to both conquer the challenges of the shrine and defeat or outmaneuver Ana herself. At that point in my life, such a thing seemed nearly insurmountable…but at least I was finally making progress.

With a Dianis Point established, I could begin to make more…or follow the “pure path” and simply focus on strengthening a single Dianis Point. My decision would determine the nature of my Class Mark, a visible mark that would appear on my body when I reached the next level of essence development. Class Marks granted specialized powers, similar to Kaldwynian attunement marks, and they served as a visible sign of an essence user’s specialty. Choosing which Class Mark to work toward would be one of the most important decisions of my life. Plans spun in my mind as I devoured the candy.

So, with chocolate-stained hands, I turned back to Ana. “So, uh, weird question. How’d you figure out what your essence types were?”

“Oh!” She blinked at me. “I mean, my Heart Essence was clear from birth. I don’t remember when someone first told me about it.”

“What about the others, though? Imagination is a little more esoteric than dungeon essence.”

“Yeah, sure. I thought it was dream essence at first, since I found that Dianis Point awakened when, well, I woke up one day. The queen is the one who told me what it was.”

I winced. I was…not going to talk to the Queen of Rust and Salt any time soon. “And the third one?”

“Uh, lemmie think. Oh! I think it was Uncle Eiji that told me about it.” She tilted her head to the side curiously. “What, are you trying to figure yours out? Isn’t it obvious?”

“Could be a lot of things. Cutting essence, breaking essence, weapon—”

“It’s sword essence.” She rolled her eyes. “It’s obviously sword essence.”

I felt my heart skip a beat, and not just because the Dianis Point that I’d awakened was in my heart. “You’re sure?”

“Uh, yeah. I’m a literal sword fae. I’d recognize it anywhere.”

I frowned. “But you don’t actually use sword essence.” “Not yet, sure, but I’ve been gathering some. Might makeit my fourth Dianis Point, maybe my fifth.”

…She made it sound so easy. So casual. I shook my head. It wasn’t worth getting discouraged over something like that. If anything, it would be advantageous if we both had sword essence — we could start learning the same techniques and practicing them together. We’d also potentially generate sword essence just from sparring with each other, which would be a net gain for us both. “…Sword essence. My plan…actually worked.”

I felt a grin stretching across my face. Ana snorted. “First time for everything.”

I folded my arms. “Oh, come on! I haven’t had that many failed plans.”

“Like the time you tried to get the naiads twins to nearly drown  you  to  ‘awaken  your  power  with  a  near  death-experience’?”

“That’s a well-documented phenomenon for essence wielders! It’s not my fault the books don’t talk about how inefficient it is at low levels.”

“Or how you used to sleep with a wooden sword to try to get just a little bit of essence every night?”

“…We still can’t prove that didn’t work.” Ana rolled her eyes.

“Or the time you nearly disrupted an ancient ritual by trying to pull one of the swords out of the Rust River?”

“They’re all just standing there! How was I supposed to know they were a ritual formation?”

“Uh, you could have looked at the ley lines.” “I can’t see ley lines.”

Ana looked at me with sudden sadness in her eyes. “I… am so sorry, Lien. I should be more sensitive about your disabilities.”

“It’s not a disability!” I sighed. “Look, I admit I’ve had a few ideas that weren’t exactly ideal—”

Ana snorted again.

“—but I have sword essence now. Finally.” It hadn’t been easy.

Humans absorbed essence through exposure to large enough quantities of it. At later levels of essence development, a person had ways of manually compressing essence in their body to form desired Dianis Points, but the Heart Point was trickier. There was very little manual control possible for essence before the first Dianis Point was established. The Heart Point was formed as soon as your body had absorbed enough essence of any one specific type— thus, in order to choose the Heart Point type you wanted, you needed to make sure you were absorbing more of that essence than anything else.

And it wasn’t easy to find sword essence in a faerie forest. Not in pure form, at least.

So, for years and years, I’d done everything I could to skew the odds in my favor.

Ana had teased me about sleeping with a wooden sword, but she’d been wrong — I hadn’t slept with one. I’d slept with as many as fifty-seven of them in and around my bedside, all crafted by hand.

I’d made frequent trips to the Rust River to visit the swords there, absorbing what essence I could from the swords themselves, the saturated waters, and the plants nearby.

I’d worked at the Ghost Forge, not as a formal apprentice, but as an extra set of hands for Auntie Temper.

And, on the rare occasions when I had the opportunity, I’d traded, borrowed, and begged for raw sword essence in the form of essence vials and compressed nodes. Sadly, there weren’t many opportunities to do this — it simply wasn’t a common enough essence type for trade to be viable. Not in my homeland, anyway.

Even with all that effort, I hadn’t known if I’d managed to succeed until that day. My efforts to nurture a sword essence Heart Point were a race against every other type of essence I was exposed to — and, given the type of faerie forest I was in, that was a staggering variety.

If I’d gone just a little slower, I might have ended up with one of the more common types in the forest flowing through my heart. Something like life, or water, or even air — such essence types were ubiquitous.

But I’d succeeded. And now…it was almost time for the next phase in my (somewhat dubious) plan. “So…” I grinned. “I can go to your shrine now, can’t I?”

Ana’s eyes widened. “Oh! You can! You can finally start visiting me now! I can’t wait to brutalize you with my challenges!” She visibly brightened.

I grinned in return. “You can certainly try. In the meantime, though…a question for you. How long did it take you to get to peak Clarion?”

“Well, remember when I started glowing in the middle of our sparring match last winter?”

“Uh, yeah, hard to forget.”

“I know.” She batted her eyes at me. “I’m unforgettable.” “Ugh. Just keep going.”

“Right. Well, that was when I first manifested my third essence type. I was able to start using a technique for it within two weeks. Aren’t I amazing?”

I grinned. “You are amazing. Your talent for essence techniques is marvelous for our age. It’s a shame about your swordsmanship.”

She punched me in the arm. Not hard, of course, but she was strong. At peak Clarion — the third stage of the Clarion level — her entire body had been reinforced considerably more than mine by her Dianis Points. “You’re asking for it, buddy. I played easy because it’s for your Name Day—”

“Oh, is that why you kept over-extending yourself?” She growled. “Your face over-extended itself.”

“That...doesn’t even make any sense. But jumping back a topic...”

Ana grinned. “Right, running away. I see how it is.” “Where’d you learn your techniques?”

“Well, it depended on the specific technique type. I have different teachers for each. For sword essence…uh, that’s going to be a problem, isn’t it?”

“Yeah. Not a lot of sword teachers out here.”

We paused, contemplating quietly for a time while we ate.

It took Ana twelve years to reach peak Clarion…but it shouldn’t take me that long. At our age, essence development should be faster than when she was first born…but…she’s not going to slow down.

I’m going to need to figure out some tricks. But for now… Taking a little break might be okay.

When the slain dragon was emptied, we rested together on the grass, chocolatey fingers intertwined.

“…You think it’ll always be like this for us?” Ana asked. “I hope so.”

We were quiet, then.

Time passed. Day darkened until night.

…And finally, as Ana fell asleep, she changed. Her body shrank down to its original size, barely larger than my hand. It had taken her years to learn the techniques necessary to enlarge herself to my size, and even now, she couldn’t maintain them in her sleep.

I knelt down and cautiously picked her up, then laid her atop my cloak as a makeshift bed. She mumbled something in her sleep about there “not being enough time”, but I couldn’t quite catch all of it.

I had to rest her face-down on the cloak to avoid her wings punching holes in it, but she settled in easily enough. “Sleep well, Ana.”

Then finally, with a hint of regret at daylight’s end, I carried her home.