CHAPTER XXXXII – THE COST OF A LIFE

I knelt at Sera’s side, crying and holding her hand as I watched her chest cavity rebuild itself.

She didn’t wake up. Her hand squeezed and her body twitched spasmodically, but she didn’t wake up.

I still wasn’t thinking anything close to clearly, but as minutes passed, I knew I had to do something more. Patrick and Mara were still down, Derek was…gone…and Sera… Aayara had done something, but I didn’t know what, or if it would be enough.

I pushed myself to my feet, dragged myself out of the ruins, and called for help.

It didn’t take long for Elora Theas to arrive at the ruins, then help me carry the others out of the anti-teleportation field. From there, she took us to Sheridan.

We laid their bodies down on cots that had clearly been set aside for the wounded. Deni cast a series of diagnostic spells on each of them. When they got to Sera, Deni winced. “I…don’t know if…”

“Just do what you can.” I paused, then, in a moment of clarity, I added, “Aayara Haven gave me this. It might be nothing, but…”

I handed Sheridan the seemingly empty vial. The label was in a foreign language of some kind, but I couldn’t recognize it.

Sheridan turned it over in their hands. “I’ll see if I can figure it out after I’ve done what I can to stabilize these three. For now…you need to rest, Corin. I’ll call someone in to treat your own wounds.”

Rest. That…sounded like a good idea. I took a seat on one of the beds.

I don’t remember what happened after that.

***I woke up to find Patrick sitting by my side. I tried to sit up, but he put a hand over my chest. “Don’t move. You still have broken ribs.”

I groaned, pain flooding through me along with awareness. “…I…right.” With awareness came memory. Terrible memory. “Sera. Sera…is she…”

“Alive. Or…something like it, at least. I don’t fully understand.” Patrick lowered his head and trembled. “It’s… she’s cold to the touch. And…she has ice forming on her skin. Sheridan didn’t seem to understand it fully, either. Might have to do with Seiryu — Sheridan thinks the God Serpent might done something to preserve Sera to keep her from dying when she was bleeding out, but…it may not have worked quite right. They’re doing some research on that vial you were given, but…” Patrick shook his head. “It’s bad, Corin. It’s real bad. She might not wake back up for a while. She might not wake up at all.”

I tried to sit up and failed, my mind swimming. “Easy, there. You went through a great deal yourself. You…you kept trying to heal Sera when she—”

I remembered. As much as I hated to, I remembered the image of the hole in her chest, the blood everywhere, so much blood—I shivered.

“Sorry, sorry. Don’t think about that. You just…you need to rest, okay?”

I shook my head. “I can’t, not if Sera’s condition is still in question. I need to figure something out, need to fix it.”

“Sheridan is handling that, Corin. And you…you shouldn’t be casting any more spells for a while. I don’t know if I fully understand what happened, but Sheridan mentioned that your star veins and spirit are both…they’re not in great shape. We…we weren’t really sure you’d be waking up, either. If you hadn’t had some kind of spirit magic working to repair the damage, it would have been much worse.

Might have lost your Enchanter attunement, and even if you didn’t…”

“I might have permanent cognitive damage.” I shuddered. I’d been afraid for so long of causing exactly that by overdoing it with my mental mana, but…when I’d seen Sera dying…there wasn’t time for hesitation. No room for a choice, for deliberation, for fear. “I think I need to run through some cognition tests. Do we have any handy?”

Patrick gave me a sad smile. “I don’t think that’s likely.” “…Water, then?”

“That I can do.”

Patrick got me a glass of water. I barely managed to drink it without retching the fluid back up. Gradually, I managed to force it down, followed by some plain porridge a bit later. Patrick kept me company for the most part, between checking on Sera and…“Mara?” I asked. “Is she with Sera?”

Patrick shook his head. “No, she’s... There’s something you need to know. She’s alive, but…” He grimaced. “Sheridan did everything they could, but Mara’s right hand…it was so badly crushed…”

My mind flashed to the image of Mara screaming as Saffron grabbed her outstretched fist and—Oh, no.

I barely kept myself from vomiting as the memory burned through me.

“It’s...she’s alive, at least,” Patrick said, “she’s recovering. There’s always hope.”

I didn’t know what to say to that, so I said nothing at all.

It was a full day before I was permitted to leave my recovery bed for anything other than necessities. Sheridan checked in on me repeatedly, running a variety of medical tests.

“You’re mending, at least,” they told me, “and you should be able to walk unassisted soon. For now, an old-fashioned cane should suffice.”

“…I have a couple in my bag.” I hesitated before asking the question that had been causing me to quietly panic for days, but I needed to ask it. “My mind…is it…broken?”

I half-expected a teasing response, but Sheridan must have noted the heartbreak in my eyes. “No. Never think of yourself that way, no matter what happens. Even if you suffer cognitive damage, you’re not broken. That said, I know what you’re asking — and initial tests aren’t showing any permanent damage. I see extreme signs of strain, but no scarring — yet. Under no circumstances should you use transcendence mana until I’ve cleared you, which I estimate to be six months. I would also strongly advise against using your Enchanter attunement or any form of mental mana, but those risk factors are….lower, at least.”

As terrible as those restrictions were, I cried myself to sleep in relief as soon as I was alone again.

The next day, I was functional enough to get up and move with the cane.

I visited Sera, sitting at her side for hours. She didn’t wake up.

I read to her — Sheridan said that sometimes helped people who couldn’t wake up. Someone suggested music, but I didn’t have any talent at that. Neither did Patrick. Mara’s gift was somewhere in my room, but I didn’t have the strength to go and find it.

…And Mara wasn’t in any condition to play anything. I knocked at her door next.

“Go ‘way.”

“It’s Corin,” I tried. “I brought you something.” “…’Spose I can’t let you keep me in suspense, then.”

I found her sitting up in her bed, hair wild and blanket wrapped around her legs. She shifted subtly as I opened the door, moving her right arm beneath the covers as I stepped inside.

I closed the door behind me. “I…can I sit down?”

“Not like I could stop you. Not anymore.” She pulled up her blanket further, trembling.

“Hey, it’s…”

I couldn’t quite find it in me to tell her it would be okay.

It very much wasn’t okay. I wasn’t sure if it would ever would be.

Instead, I sat down beside her bed, hesitating and debating for a moment, then found my resolve. “We have options for you. I still have Goddess’ Tears, and we can grow more—”

“Won’t work.” Mara shivered. “He…took something from me when he hurt me. A piece of me. Stole something that…I can’t get back. Can’t heal it. My soul won’t recognize it.”

I frowned at that. Sheridan must have analyzed the injury through methods that were beyond my abilities, then. “Even spirits can be healed, right? There’s probably an Artinian technique…or, if not, a prosthetic—”

She turned straight toward me, her reddened eyes narrowing. “I don’t need to be your next project. If that’s all you’re here for, get out and find someone else to fix.”

“I…I’m sorry. I…no.” I pulled back at her sudden aggression. I should have asked Sheridan about what had already been discussed with Mara before the visit. I couldn’t fix that mistake, but I still had a peace offering. “Neither of us is going to be capable of training properly for a while,” I began.

“You think?”

“…But we’re not going to give up either, are we? Our teacher wouldn’t allow that.”

Mara shuddered and sniffled. “…Don’t talk to me about him.”

“Don’t need to.” I ignored her bitterness, reaching into my bag to retrieve a box, then flipped it open, revealing a line of crystals. “He always preferred to hear himself talk, anyway.”

Mara managed a half-snort at that, then tried to reach up to wipe her eyes—With an arm that no longer ended in a hand.

That nearly started her crying again, but I managed to pull a handkerchief out of my bag so swiftly that I processed it, and placed it in her remaining hand.

“…Thanks.”

“So,” I flipped over the crystal, “they’re mostly fights, sequentially labeled in order of difficulty. I’m supposed to watch them in order to process them properly, but…he never cared much for doing things in a proper sequence, and neither do I.” I pulled one of the crystals out. “I’m thinking maybe ‘lich’ or ‘malevolent demigod’. You?”

“…Malevolent demigod sounds ‘bout my speed. You don’t think…”

“It’s not one of the Children of the Tyrant. He has one labeled ‘vae’kes’ in there, but I don’t think I’m ready to watch that.”

Mara gave me a weak nod. “You sure you want to share this with me? It was your present, and…”

“I read the instructions. The crystal can be watched by more than one person at the same time. He knew I’d want to show them to you, he just was letting me make the choice. Wanted me to realize that I didn’t want to train alone. That I didn’t have to be alone.”

Mara looked a little bit like she was about to cry again, but managed to push that down in favor of using her remaining hand to pat the side of the bed. “Backs to the wall with me, so we don’t hit our heads when we watch this thing.”

I nodded and stat down on the bed. We leaned back against the wall together, like she said. After a moment of hesitation, Mara shifted the blanket to cover both of our legs, exposing her missing hand in the process. She still looked a little ashamed, but she didn’t hide it.

We grasped the crystal together and spoke. “View.”

***Days passed.

Mara and I continued our “training” together, watching the crystals and sharing the memories of our teacher. The hurt remained, but within a few days, I managed to drag her out of bed to start walking around. That, at least, helped to get one more person on shifts to watch Sera—And it was Mara who was in Sera’s room when my sister began to groan and shift with more regularity.

“Come quick, think she’s wakin’!”

I was there with her when it happened, holding her hand. When her eyes fluttered open, they shined crystal blue. “…Where am I?” Was the first thing she asked.

Then, as she shifted her gaze around to take in each of us…“…And where is Derek?”

EPILOGUE – BROKEN HORIZONThe days that followed were among the most difficult of my life. Sera was pale and shivered constantly. Her body and hands ice-cold.

We spent as much time with her as we could, trying to help ease her guilt at Derek’s absence and give her physical comfort…but she fell asleep often, only to wake up screaming or with frozen tears in her eyes.

She didn’t remember what she dreamed about, but she spoke often while she slept, often murmuring things in a language that I didn’t recognize. On rare occasions, I thought I saw a thin layer of ice forming on her body, only to vanish the moment I looked more closely.

Sheridan tried several treatments, but even they were at a loss. Whatever Aayara had done to save Sera’s fading life was beyond even Sheridan’s knowledge and abilities…and the vial, our only real clue, was in a language that none of us could read.

Researcher, at least, was able to identify the tongue as Vesilis, one of the local languages on the continent of Tyrenia. Unfortunately, even she didn’t understand it, nor did she have any complete books on the subject in the Divinatory. She did, however, find the word “shal”, which seemed to have something to do with “life”.

A hint, but nowhere near enough.

Sheridan tried several powerful healing spells designed for treating various magical maladies—They left Sera screaming and trembling each and every time…but eventually, they seemed to help.

For certain values of “help”, at least. Each application of a spirit-based healing spell seemed to help Sera’s condition stabilize somewhat in the long-term, reducing Sera’s shivering fits and allowing her to gradually regain moremovement. In exchange for that, Sera had to suffer what looked like torture.

We tried the Goddess’ Tear next. Sera and Cecily’s gardening project had produced enough viable results that Sheridan was able to brew a potion, as we’d once hoped to use to simply help her throat.

When Sera drank the potion, she collapsed and lost consciousness for three more days.

When she finally woke up, her cough was gone. Her safe mana levels had shot upward by an amount nearly comparable to what she’d lost when she’d first caused her scarring. The remaining scarring itself, Sheridan reported, was almost entirely healed.

…But for her new condition, the potion had done nothing at all. If anything, it had made the strange chill that remained on her skin worse. Even after several more applications of spirit-based healing magic, Sera was constantly cold, wearing winter clothes in spite of the growing warmth in the weather to help stave off the effect.

In spite of that, we were all relieved that she was alive at all…save, perhaps, for Sera herself.

“He shouldn’t have done that,” she’d say over and over, “he didn’t have to…”

“We’ll rescue him,” Patrick offered at one point. “We’ll get a group together, and…”

Sera gave a bitter laugh. “Of course you’d suggest that. You’re the only one of us who came out of the fight intact. Maybe you think you’d get another miracle?”

Patrick blanched at her words. “I…I’m sorry, I…”

“That’s enough, Sera. He offered himself up to Aayara before Derek did.”

“I…I’m sorry. You’re right.” She winced. “I’m sorry, Patrick. It’s…I’m just…I’m not okay. Nothing is okay. And Derek…we don’t have any hope of saving him. Not from… not from her.”

“Not	as	we	are	now,”	I	admitted.	“Not	alone.	But maybe…”

“Don’t even suggest it, Corin.” She exhaled a breath. “Six years. I won’t forget what I owe him.”

***My own mind was, in spite of terror in the early days of the aftermath of the battle, recovering. Sheridan had checked me several times and confirmed their original diagnosis — no signs of scarring.

“Overdoing it with dominion sorcery can be just as dangerous as dipping below your safe mana capacity. You took a real risk there, but fortunately, you seem to be mending more rapidly than I expected. You should still remember the limitations I gave you to be safe — no transcendence mana for six months, and avoid your Enchanter attunement and mental mana use — but if you follow my instructions, you should heal properly. I suspect it’s because of that recovery art that you mentioned Thorn using in the battle — he probably knew how to use spirit mana to cause your body to revert to an earlier state. That’s incredibly advanced magic, but if he’s who you say he is…” Sheridan shook their head, “…well, I’d have some questions for him, but he seems to have helped.”

I also had some questions for him, but I’d had no luck reaching him. I’d tried the spirit communion spells I’d already learned, but I felt like they were trying to speak to a vast space of blackness with nothing visible within. Perhaps that emptiness meant that Thorn had been completely cast out of the sword — or maybe it was a representation of Thorn himself during some kind of healing process. I’d asked Deni, but that wasn’t their area of expertise.

Derek might have known, but he was gone. Keras might have known, but he was gone, too.

I had no easy source of insight or answers. And while Sheridan was sympathetic and helpful, they didn’t have theability to spend time doing all the research for me. They had plenty of other wounded to tend to—The other assaults on the Sons of Valia hadn’t gone much more smoothly than ours had. Ultimately, the operation had been considered “successful” — many of the leaders of the movement had been crippled or killed — but at terrible costs. The Blackstone Bandits would be nursing their wounds for a long time.

Patrick did his best to be supportive, but he still had his own trauma to deal with, and he was the only one of us still uninjured enough to provide support to everyone — and that meant splitting his time. Jin came by from time to time after completing his own mission and learning what had happened to us, but he had little else to directly contribute other than moral support.

Lute had vanished without a trace in the aftermath of the battle. I didn’t even know if he’d been involved, but in searching for him for help, I found only another dead-end.

I tried several times to reconstruct the spirit art that Thorn had used from memory, hoping that I’d be able to use it to accelerate my own recovery — or Sera’s — but the flashes of thought from when he was in control of my body were not complete enough for me to successfully emulate the technique. I began to do some reading on it from books in my collection and Sheridan’s, but spirit arts were poorly understood on Kaldwyn, at least in Valia.

…So, when that was clearly a process that would take a while, I began to work on something more practical.

Elora and Sheridan had salvaged many of the boxes containing preserved limbs from the warehouse, as well as other locations where teams had fought the Sons of Valia. Through logistics that were beyond my knowledge, as well as the assistance of Chancellor Meltlake, they began to match limbs to victims. Some of them were well-enough preserved for a medic with Sheridan’s talents to reattach,but the attunements still didn’t turn back on even in cases where surgical reattachment was successful.

…They needed an Arbiter for that.

And so, I put myself to work at healing some of the damage the Sons of Valia had caused. It felt like too far too little to offset the horrors that they’d caused, but for every attunement I helped restore, I felt a little more whole.

It was nearly time for the next semester to begin when I found a new sign of hope — something that might help us lead to answers for the people I truly cared for.

A letter arrived at Derek’s door addressed to me. The message within it was simple.

On Behalf of Warren Constantine, Master of the Sorcerous Spire,Corin Cadence, as Arbiter of Katashi, you are formally invited to attend this emergency session of the Emerald Council. Your presence will be much appreciated as we begin the preparations for what must be coming.

The urgency of this message cannot be understated. You must make your way to the Unclaimed Lands with expediency and caution.

By the time you read this letter, the nation of Valia will be at war.

THE ENDAPPENDIX I – ATTUNEMENTS OF EAST EDRIAFrom Corin’s NotesEast Edria is the nation that I’ve learned the least about, but I’ve picked up the basic bits about each of their attunements during my studies.

Of course, Mesmer is the one I’m the most familiar with due to the presence of a certain Dalen in my life. Beyond that, I’ve seen precious few of them in person…in spite of my mother apparently having picked up a Swordmaster attunement at some point. Gonna have to learn about how that happened eventually.

Conjurer: The Conjurer is able to create entities with “false life”. These are functionally similar to summons, but seemingly based entirely on the knowledge and imagination of the Conjurer, rather than contracts. There are apparently ways to make more convincing conjurations with examples from a real creature, but I don’t know much about it yet.

Mana Types: Life (Primary), Umbral (Secondary), Mental (Tertiary)Mesmer: Mesmers are experts at concealment, but not through traditional invisibility. Instead, they have a perception-based ability that causes people nearby to simply forget they exist. This “irrelevance aura” is potent enough that a Mesmer of sufficient power canactivate it in the middle of a conversation and cause their conversation partners to forget their presence.

Mana Types: Perception (Primary), Death (Secondary), Umbral (Tertiary)Dancer: This unusual attunement is focused almost entirely on avoiding and countering debilitating effects. They apparently get access to some sort of unique ability that allows them to twist spells used against them back toward their opponents, but rather than being used for physical spells like a Shaper’s magical control, Dancers focus on reversing mental spell effects, poisons, and other similar spell types.

Mana Types: Mental (Primary), Water (Secondary), Air (Tertiary)Purifier: Purifiers are specialists in neutralizing debilitating and controlling magic. For example, they can counter most forms of anti-magic, poison, and disease. They’re also offensive powerhouses, using a combination of fire and light sorcery to blast through magical defenses.

Mana Types: Fire (Primary), Light (Secondary), Mental (Tertiary)Pyromancer: The East Edrian analogue to the Elementalist, but even more focused on fire. They’re reportedly able to create black flames that continue spreading and burning on their own. These black flames are nearly impossible to dispel or disperse through conventional means, making Pyromancers absolute powerhouses at ranged offensive combat.

Mana Types: Fire (Primary), Death (Secondary), Umbral (Tertiary)Shapeshifter: One of the few “contract-based” attunements similar to Summoners and Soulblades. Rather than being able to summon monsters, Shapeshifters learn to turn into monsters based on contracts they’ve made. Scary stuff.

Mana Types: Perception (Primary), Earth (Secondary), Life (Tertiary)Spellsinger: Spellsingers have a rare focus on broad- area debilitating magic, often in the form of spells that slow, fatigue, or otherwise mentally incapacitate their enemies. Higher-level Spellsingers also gain access to potent wide-area beneficial effects, too.

Mana Types: Air (Primary), Perception (Secondary), Light (Tertiary)Swordmaster: An attunement focused on weapon enhancement magic, such as empowering weapons with stored spells or otherwise improving the weapon’s abilities. They’re also one of the best attunements for overall physical power growth, similar to Guardians.

Mana Types: Enhancement (Primary), Fire (Secondary), Earth (Tertiary)APPENDIX II – CHARACTERS AND TERMSFrom Corin’s notesHouse Cadence:Magnus Cadence — Head of House Cadence, father of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Presumably also the father of Sera Cadence.

Laura Lyran — Head of House Lyran, mother of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Emerald-level attuned with the Swordmaster and Elementalist attunements. Member of Valia’s Council of Lords.

Tristan Cadence — Elder son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Disappeared into the Serpent Tower during his Judgment. Presumed deceased.

Corin Cadence — Younger son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Presumptive heir to both houses after Tristan’s disappearance. Earned an Enchanter attunement in the spire. Was given a mysterious new attunement by Katashi, the Visage of Valor.

Sera Cadence — Previously known as Sera Shard, Sera Cadence was legitimized by Magnus Cadence after passing her Attunement exam. She is presumed to be a bastard child of Magnus Cadence. After being legitimized, she is now a potential heir to the house. She’s my age and has a Summoner attunement.

University Staff:Chancellor Wallace — She was in charge of all university activities. Deceased after the battle with Mizuchi at the winter ball.

Lieutenant Commander Jack Bennet — Vice Chancellor, former military commander.

Professors:Professor	Edlyn	—	Assisted	with	new	student orientation. Teaches Enchanting class.

Professor Ceridan — In charge of Tiger Class.

Teaches Elementalists.

Professor Lyras Orden — In charge of Serpent Division and member of the Whispers, an organization that secretly serves the visages. Orden was involved with a conspiracy to kidnap the visage Tenjin, and she betrayed me during a spire expedition in the middle of the first year.

Professor Vellum — Teaches classes on permanent enchantments. Served as my mentor for most enchanting-related studies during the first year. She severely hurt herself rescuing me and other students from Mizuchi during the winter ball.

Professor Conway — Teaches Attunements class.

Died fighting Mizuchi at the winter ball.

Lord Jonathan Teft — In charge of Hydra Class.

Teaches dueling.

Doctor Tordrin — In charge of Phoenix Class.

Professor Meltlake — General Magic Theory class. Legendary Elementalist and Patrick’s personal mentor. A former member of House Hartigan, she is Derek Hartigan’s aunt. “Meltlake” is a title that replaced her last name after a famous duel where she supposedly set a lake on fire. Has a persistent leg injury and walks with a cane.

Professor Vanway — Teacher for an unknown class. Not one of my professors.

Sir Tanath — A member of the Soaring Wings, and a Summoner. One of Marissa’s teachers.

Professor Vestan — Corin’s Introductory Runes teacher.

Professor Zou — A guest professor.

Professor Saito — Attunement Optimization teacher.

Professor Wydran — Intermediate Enchanting teacher. Wore a strange black uniform. Transferred me into a more advanced class.

Professor de Remy — Advanced Enchanting Teacher for third-year students.

Professor Ezran — My Intermediate Mana Manipulation teacher.

Lady Anette Haven — My Alternate Magic Sources teacher.

Students:Patrick Wayland — One of my childhood friends, now my first retainer. An Elementalist and magical weapon enthusiast.

Jin Dalen — A mysterious foreign student from East Edria with a Sunstone-level Mesmer attunement. His family is sworn to House Dalen, the former ruling house of East Edria from the days before it was under Edrian rule. He was badly injured after fighting against me in the Serpent Spire, but escaped using my return bell. We ran into each other again after that, but things have been strained.

Marissa Callahan — One of my classmates. Usually called “Mara” by her friends, but I’m still getting used to the nickname. She’s a Guardian and something of a prodigy for our year. In the second half of the school year, she began training with Keras Selyrian to learn his combat techniques.

Roland Royce — One of Sera’s friends and a former friend of Tristan’s. Diviner. I think Sera may be trying to get him as a retainer.

Cecily Lambert — The younger sister of Yunika Lambert. One of my closest childhood companions. Things between us are a little awkward, since Tristan was engaged to Yunika before he disappeared, and there was an implication that Cecily and I might eventually get married, too. And then there was the training with father…anyway, things are strained, but we’re talking again.

Curtis Maddock — Dorm chief for my dorm. I, uh, probably should have talked to him more. He has two attunements on the same arm.

Lisa Stone — Former classmate from my childhood. Jordan Jaldin — A second-year student that supervised one of the teams for the first year’s final exams.

Katherine Winters — A second-year student that supervised my team’s first year’s final exams. Goes by Kathy.

Rupert Kent — Elementalist. Noble who was part of a family that tried to “adopt” Mara from her family when she was younger. Total creep.

Kyra Dyson — Shadow. One of the better duelists in our first-year class. A member of Roland’s testing team.

Loria Marshall — Elementalist and close friend of Kyra’s. Another member of Roland’s team.

Desmond Vyers — Shaper. One of the best duelists of our first-year class. A member of Roland’s team.

Holly — Third-year Enchanting student.

Gregori — Third-year Enchanting student.

Tylan — Third-year Enchanting student.

Lute — Another student of the non-human variety, although probably slightly less murderous. Unclear,to be honest. Swordsman. Possibly a literal sword? Not really sure, but he’s seemingly related to Keras somehow, which raises all sorts of questions. Suspect he’s extremely powerful, probably in the Emerald range. Uses strange sword techniques that may involve transcendence mana.

Vernon Tenson — Third-year student with dual attunements (Champion and Guardian). Leader of Team Goddess’ Grace for dueling class.

Sandra Stone — Third-year student with a Sunstone-level Summoner attunement. Member of Team Goddess’ Grace.

Micha Sawyer — Third-year student. Diviner with an enhancement mana specialization. Member of Team Goddess’ Grace.

Jeremy Jaldin — Third-year student. Older brother of Jordan Jaldin. Shaper with a near-Citrine mana pool. Leader of Team Bloodline.

Tyler Sanctum — Third-year student. Sunstone- level Spellsinger and specialist in sonic attacks. Member of Team Bloodline.

Matthew Coin — Third-year student. Sunstone- level Elementalist with an air specialized-mark. Member of Team Bloodline.

Mary Hawthorne — Team leader of Team Skyseeker, one of the most powerful dueling teams of our year. Abjurer-style banishment abilities using a bow and arrow. Saw her during the fight with Mizuchi last year, but didn’t know her at the time.

Vermillion Rose — A member of Mary’s dueling team. Uses sword-enhancement magic, similar to a Swordmaster attunement and with some resemblance to Keras’ Pale Crescent.

Kuro Nightshade — A member of Team Skyseeker with a “classic wizard” motif. Extremely broad skill set. Probably an Enchanter, Architect, or maybe aConjurer…unless he has a foreign skill set. It’s possible their whole team is using foreign magic, given some of their strange abilities.

Other People:Lars Mantrake — Shopkeeper for the Climber’s Court, a magic item shop. As a former climber, he has many stories of the spires, almost half of which are probably true. He told me a bit about Selys- Lyann, my sword, and I think he may have seen it in the past.

Keras Selyrian — Mysterious foreign swordsman that I first encountered during my Judgment. Currently serving as my bodyguard in order to get into the good graces of Katashi, the Visage of Valor. He’s taught me a bit of his fighting style, but he uses weird foreign magic, so I haven’t been able to learn all of it. He rescued me from Saffron, a child of the Tyrant in Gold, during the second half of the school year.

Echion — He’s a kid with an experimental artificial attunement that I rescued during my Judgment. His strange attunement seems to be based on god beasts, rather than conventional attunements. I plan to study that style of thing eventually.

Vera Corrington — Tower explorer that I first encountered during my Judgment. I broke her out of a cell, then she stabbed me in the back. Eventually, I found her and escorted her back to the tower, where she turned herself in to Katashi to help prevent collateral damage from some of her actions related to ambushing Tenjin, one of the visages.

Aloras Corrington — Automotive engineer. Vera’s brother.

Derek Hartigan — Heir to House Hartigan, an ancient  noble  house.  Has  an  Emerald-levelSoulblade attunement. We spent the second half of the school year living at his place.

Tavare — Derek’s Summoned blade elemental. Refers to themselves as “Radiance”, which is kind of weird.

Delsys — Derek’s Summoned flame/wind elemental.

Elora Theas — Heir to House Theas, an ancient noble house. She’s an Emerald-level Summoner, Derek’s former (current?) paramour, and has a contract with the God Phoenix. She’s also heavily involved with the same conspiracy that my brother is, but I don’t know what her real goals are.

Sheridan Theas — Elora Theas’ sibling, and a follower of Wydd. Wields the restricted “Necromancer” attunement, but specializes in healing. Derek usually refers to them by the nickname “Deni”. May or may not be flirting with me. Aaaaaah.

Vanniv — A summoned karvensi. Both Elora and Sera have contracts with Vanniv. Somehow fashionable, even when shirtless.

Researcher — A knowledge elemental that resides in the restricted section of the Divinatory.

Yunika Lambert — Cecily Lambert’s older sister, and Tristan’s former fiancée. Still not sure on her angle on all the politics going on.

Meredith Hawkins — A historical figure who supposedly escaped one of the spires after several years of being trapped inside. Commonly believed to be a con artist.

Johannes Edington — An academic who attempted to enter a Judgment and stay inside as long as possible in order to preserve memories of what the rooms looked like. Emerged a few months later and published a paper on his findings.

Anabelle Farren — The owner of Farren Labs, the center for artificial attunement research.

Nakht — A worker for Anabelle Farren at Farren Labs with a strange, shifting aura.

Kahi Zephyr — A guide for Farren Labs.

Ashon — A researcher for Farren Labs with a bit too much interest in my Arbiter attunement.

Archduke Verena — The leader of an Edrian noble house many years in the past. He is seen, along with other members of his family, in a constructed scenario inside the Tiger Spire.

Dalen Mitsurugi — An ancestor of Jin Dalen in a constructed scenario inside the Tiger Spire. He was a wielder of Soulbrand, the Sacred Sword of Fire. Note that he uses the Dalenos naming style, meaning “Dalen” is his surname, not his personal name. I wonder if Jin prefers that and simply used our naming style while visiting Valia?Jerome Schmidt — An Edrian noble and son of Kaspar Schmidt, who fought my great grandfather in the Six Years War. I studied his fighting style in my childhood.

Emma Verena — One of Archduke Verena’s daughters in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Emery Verena — One of Archduke Verena’s daughters in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Anthony — A manservant for House Verena in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Lady Nora Haven — A member of House Haven in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Caelyssa Ves — Goes by “Lys”. A retainer of House Haven in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Constant Beaufort — A member of House Beaufort in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Len — Short for “Lydia Emulation”. A spiritual copy of Lydia Hastings, a commanding officer of the knightly order that Keras belonged to in his homeland.

Spirit Gateway Crystal — A sentient crystal in the Unclaimed Lands that created challenges for Keras when he entered a shrine.

Transcendence Gateway Crystal — A sentient crystal in the Unclaimed Lands that offers challenges for those that enter the crystal’s home.

Roy — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway crystal’s challenges.

Elina Maryn — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway crystal’s challenges.

Kester Boyd — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway crystal’s challenges. Apparently worked with Lars Mantrake.

Visages:Katashi — Visage of Valor, patron Visage of Dalenos, where he is a central figure in their government.

Melkyr — Visage of Resilience, patron Visage of Edria.

Ferras — Visage of Creation, patron Visage of Caelford.

Tenjin — Visage of Inspiration, patron Visage of Valia. Currently missing.

Kerivas — Visage of Law, second patron Visage of Edria.

Wydd — Visage of Forbidden Knowledge. Location unknown. Often depicted as a trickster or shapeshifter.

God Beasts:Genbu, the God Tortoise — God Beast of Dalenos.

Seiryu, the God Serpent — God Beast of Valia.

Orochi, the God Hydra — God Beast of Edria.

Byakko, the God Tiger — God Beast of Caelford.

Suzaku, the God Phoenix — God Beast of East Edria.

Arachne, the God Spider — God Beast of (????)God Beast Children:Mizuchi — Deadly serpent, called “Hero’s End”. Child of Seiryu. Believed to be virtually invulnerable.

Satsuki — A descendant of Seiryu, the God Serpent. Apparently she’s a “murder serpent”, which is just as comforting as it sounds. She’s also enrolled as a student. Seems to like me, which is, uh, absolutely horrifying? Why, universe? Why?Other Powers:The Tyrant in Gold — A divine being that is antithetical to Selys, and believed to be comparable to her in power. The scriptures teach that he is in control of the entire world outside of Kaldwyn.

Saffron — A child of the Tyrant in Gold. Tremendously powerful, most likely on a similar level to Mizuchi.

Major Nations:Valia — Nation on the eastern coast of the continent of Kaldwyn. Home to the Serpent Tower and the Lorian Heights Academy.

Edria — Imperialistic southern nation. Conquered Kelridge during the Six Years War and nearly conquered Valia as well.

Caelford — Technologically advanced nation on the western coast of the continent. Allied with Valia.

Dalenos — Theocracy; covers most of the northern side of the continent.

Kelridge — A territory that was a part of Dalenos prior to the Six Years War. Conquered by Edria and now known as East Edria.

Days of the Week:Tashday 	Kyrsday 	Fersday 	Tensday 	VasdayWyddsdayAPPENDIX III – CORIN’S CLASS SCHEDULESFirst Semester:Tashday – Physical Training, Attunement Optimization, Intermediate EnchantingIntermediate Enchanting replaced with Advanced Enchanting after the first week.

Kyrsday – Physical Training, Intermediate Mana Manipulation, Alternate Magic Sources (Elective)Fersday – Physical Training, Attunement Optimization, Intermediate EnchantingIntermediate Enchanting replaced with Advanced Enchanting after the first week.

Tensday – Physical Training, Intermediate Mana Manipulation, Foreign Attunements and You (Elective)Vasday – Physical Training, Dueling (Elective) 	Wyddsday – Weekend, no classesSecond Semester:(TBA)ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSFirst, I’d like to thank those people who were directly involved in working on this book.

Thanks to all my beta readers, including Tobias Begley, Rojat Bhatt, Eli Brandt, Heather Crosthwaite, Yvonne Etzkorn, Justin Green, Izzy Trejo, Michael Kelly, Krista Keith, Markus Kemppainen, Jonah L.L., Rob McDiarmid, Amy Reader-Lalor, Rebecca Reeves, Jess Richards, Christine Rowe, Bruce Rowe, James Wolter, T.L. Kowalchuk, Andrew Warren, Will Wight, Andrew Winkle, and Brandon Yee.

I’d also like to thank my literary agent, Paul, and his assistant, Eloy, for tremendous assistance in the process of expanding Arcane Ascension further. We’ve got a ton of exciting things coming in regards to the setting as a whole and I can’t wait to share more with everyone.

Thank you to my narrator, Nick Podehl, for helping to bring each of my Arcane Ascension books — as well as most of my other books — to life with your amazing voice talent.

Thanks to the whole team at Podium Audio for working with me on getting amazing audio books for each book in this series, as well as some amazing merchandise. I’m also excited to be working with Podium on some other projects coming soon.

Like all of the titles for this series, the title for this book, The Silence of Unworthy Gods, draws from real-world quotes. In this particular case, it merges elements of two specific quotes:“Science has made us gods even before we are worthy of being men.” –Jean Rostand“To sin by silence when they should protest makes cowards of men.” –Abraham LincolnMost of my quotes tend to be more scientifically focused (as Rostand’s is), but for this specific book, I felt that something focused around civil rights and justice was more appropriate. Lincoln’s quote is a strong and clear example of a common theme among many civil rights advocates — that standing by and doing nothing in the face of injustice is a form of being complicit with it. Martin Luther King Jr. has a similar message with his statement, “In the end we will remember not the words of our enemies…but the silence of our friends.”

I would like to acknowledge these inspirations my title, as well as for reminding me of the importance of speaking when it might be safe and easy to remain silent.

This book draws heavily from Japanese role-playing games for inspiration, as per usual. I’ll specifically call out the Final Fantasy games for being my main influences for everything related to Summoners and summoned monsters, for example.

I’ll also note that while there is a “Ruto” in this story, he’s not actually named after the Princess Ruto from Zelda — he was named “Lute” first as a shorthand for a different full name, and Ruto is a play off that. That said, Zelda is still a huge inspiration for me in a more general sense, and you’ll see hints of that everywhere in my works.

Dawnbringer is in many ways a nod to the Master Sword, for example, and thus Bright Reflection is as well.

I’d like to thank everyone who played one of my characters in the tabletop games and LARPs linked to this story. This includes Andrew Warren as Ishyeal Dawnsglow, Justin Green as Kester Boyd (as well as the proto-character that Tristan Cadence is based on), Ira Ham as Lars Mantrake, and others.

SIMILAR WORKSI’m often asked for recommendations for books similar toSufficiently Advanced Magic.

If you’re looking for another magical school story with a protagonist that does a lot of research into how magic works, I would recommend the web serial Mother of Learning.

If you’re looking for another book with a lot of anime- flavored combat scenes, I’d recommend the Cradle series by Will Wight and the web serial Forge of Destiny.

If you’re looking for more books with strong RPG inspiration, there are a couple up-and-coming genre labels to look for.

“LitRPGs” tend to literally take place in a video game, or in a world that has overt RPG mechanics, such as character classes and levels. Some classic examples include the .Hack series and Dream Park by Larry Niven and Steven Barnes. If you’re looking for one of these, I’d recommend Ascend Online by Luke Chmilenko and the web serial Delve.

There are a number of places to find great LitRPG recommendations. For example, there’s a large LitRPG Facebook group that can be found here. There is also a LitRPG subreddit, which can be found here.

“GameLit” is a slightly broader genre that includes game inspired fiction in general. Ready Player One by Ernest Cline would be a good example of this.

If you’re looking for an online community for more GameLit recommendations, you may want to look at GameLit Society group. There’s also a more general GameLit group. There’s also a GameLit subreddit, which can be found here.

CLOSING NOTES FROM THE AUTHORThank you to everyone who finished reading this book!Corin’s journey is far from over, but I anticipate finishing the first major “arc” of Corin’s story within the next book or two, after which you may have a bit of a wait before seeing more things from his perspective. These books are one part of a much larger whole — a tale that I have been building throughout several series, which I hope will come together in a way that long-time readers will find satisfying.

I’m already working on planning for Arcane Ascension 5 and more of Corin’s story, but my writing process works best with breaks between books in any given series, especially when the books are as lengthy as Arcane Ascension books tend to be. With this book completed, I’ll be working on some smaller projects to continue building toward the main story that I’ve been hinting about since the events of Forging Divinity.

For a preview of one of my upcoming works, you can continue to read below. And after that…a teaser for something extremely exciting. Thank you again for reading, and I hope you enjoyed the book.

