CHAPTER XXXIX – TRAIL OF BLOOD

It was only a few more days before Derek gathered us together for a house meeting that we’d all known to expect.

“We’ve pinned down three likely locations for the leadership of the Sons of Valia. Our information indicates that there’s going to be a meeting at one of those locations tonight, but not which. I’m not going to waste this opportunity. We’re hitting them tonight.”

I folded my arms. “Who is we in this case? The Blackstone Bandits?”

“Among others. I’m pulling in a lot of heavy hitters for this, but they’re going to have to be distributed among the three locations. I’m going personally with one team. Elora will have another. Normally, I wouldn’t invite people as young as you are, but,” he gave Patrick a look, “I have a feeling you might want some payback.”

Patrick lowered his head. “I…I don’t know. Is this a good idea? I…I…if they have Emeralds…”

“Don’t go if you’re not up for it. That said, I sincerely doubt they’ll have more than one Emerald, and you’ll be with me. They have some of those multi-attuned with stolen attunements, but those should be mostly attunements taken from students — they won’t be that strong on their own. If by some twist of fate they happen to have more than one Emerald at the location we hit, we message Elora and she comes to support us or evacuate. I can’t claim there won’t be any risks, but we should have the element of surprise and superior forces.”

Sera frowned. “How reliable is your information source?Could this be a trap?”

Derek shrugged a shoulder. “In this kind of work, there’s always a chance it’s a trap. Most of what we’ve learned came from interrogating a chain of captured agents, but there’s a reasonable chance they were fed misinformationdeliberately under the assumption they’d be captured and leak it. That said, the number of people who could pose a meaningful threat to Elora and myself, even in an ambush, is vanishingly small. We’ll have contingencies for that, as I said, but the chances of there being a threat we can’t handle are very low.”

“If you think you can handle it, aren’t the rest of us superfluous?” I asked.

“Not necessarily. I can’t be everywhere at once and my fighting style is geared toward handling individual powerful opponents. I’m not going down easily, but if I showed up with too small of a force, there’s a good chance that some of our targets could escape while I’m dealing with the biggest threats. I’ll have Blackstones — and other allies — positioned to handle that, but extra bodies aren’t going to hurt. We don’t know exactly how many people to expect at any given location.”

“What’s the purpose of this meeting we’re supposedly going to be interrupting?” Sera asked. “Would it be useful to listen to their conversation before we strike?”

“If we could get close enough to do that, sure, that’d be fantastic — but every effort we’ve made to insert someone into their inner circle has ended badly. And while I think we could handle them in a straight fight, getting close without being observed is a much taller order. I’ve made some contracts recently specifically to improve my personal stealth abilities, but it’s not my area of expertise.”

“What about Jin?” I asked, regretting it immediately. “He’s good for his age, but he’s a Sunstone. He’d almostcertainly get caught. And I don’t have any higher-level Mesmers available — they’re simply too rare in Valia. Besides, I have him assigned to another mission.”

“What about more conventional stealth, like a Shadow?” “We have people like that, but no one that I would wantto risk getting close without a clear extraction plan. Maybe the other two groups will try that method with their ownteams — we’re not filling each other in on every detail of our movements in case things go badly for one team or another.”

I gave a grim nod at that. “If you and Elora have two of the teams, who is handling the third?”

“Can’t tell you, sorry.”

“Is Deni going?” Sera asked.

Derek shook his head. “No, but they’ll be positioned somewhere we can teleport to in case we need emergency medical attention — and someone almost certainly will.”

We went through more questions, but the rest was simple enough. After that, it was time to make a choice.

“I’m going,” Mara said first. “Providin’ that you’ll have me, of course.”

“We could absolutely use your muscle. Thank you.” Derek nodded to her. “Anyone else?”

I sincerely considered whether or not I’d be better off remaining in a safe location like Sheridan….or possibly setting up a well-defended avenue of retreat.

But after what had happened with Patrick…I wasn’t going to let my friends fight the Sons of Valia without me. Not again.

“I’m in.” I glanced at the others.

Patrick gave me an evaluating look for a moment, then finally, he whispered… “…Then I am, too.”

I looked back at him. “Is that okay? I…I could bow out if you don’t want to go.”

“No, it’s fine. I…I want to know about who is pulling the strings on this. Not just because they hurt me, but…because they hurt so many others. I got lucky. If we let them keep doing this, more and more people are going to get hurt. If I can do something to help stop it, I should.”

It sounded a bit like he was trying to convince himself, rather than me, but I nodded.

“I’ll be going as well, of course,” Sera said finally. “Cecily?”

“…Sorry, no.” Cecily shook her head. “I’m just not…built for this kind of thing.”

“Understood. Wouldn’t be bad to have someone here to keep watch on the house.” Derek paused for a moment, considering. “And I’ll leave one of my summons here with you, just in case of an emergency.”

“Thank you.” Cecily bowed her head. “I…I’m sorry for the trouble.”

“Don’t be absurd.” Sera reached across the table and squeezed Cecily’s hand. “We’re the ones putting everyone at risk. Stay safe, okay?”

“I will. And…you too.”

I sincerely wished we’d be able to agree to Cecily’s wish, but I had a feeling that things weren’t going to work out that way.

***We arrived at the warehouse at midnight. That feels like the kind of statement that should open an entirely different kind of story, but there it was.

I wasn’t used to wearing a mask. It was hugely irritating. I don’t know how Keras managed to do it so frequently without losing his mind. I kept reaching up and adjusting it, both out of general discomfort and nervousness.

I could barely see the others, even though they were only a few feet away from me. Derek was using his new shadow and void gauntlet to block detection magic from finding us, and also maintaining multiple layers of perception-altering spells from one of the new Soulblade contracts he’d mentioned. The result was that our group was both translucent and difficult to focus on. The latter effect reminded me of Jin’s Mesmer attunement, but Derek had seemingly made it so that the spell didn’t impact other people under the same spell, so we could pay attention to each other just fine. Anyone would be able to notice us if we interacted with them directly, at least initially — after a while, they’d apparently lose interest again. It apparentlytook about a minute or two of disengaging with the person for the spell to click back into effect. It didn’t sound like it was likely to work out if we caught anyone’s attention, but I hoped we wouldn’t reach that point.

He’d added in another spell to dampen sounds we made, too. Unfortunately, that one literally reduced sound, and we weren’t exempted from it. That made verbal communication more difficult. We weren’t completely silent, but we had to stay very close to talk effectively.

I didn’t like being clustered close together, both in terms of my general problems with physical touch and the constant image of being hit with a wide area of effect attack spell. Still, it was a necessity, and I supposed that the latter was less likely when we had an Emerald-level Soulblade ready to block anything someone threw at us.

We’d done as much preparation for this as we reasonably could be expected to. I had virtually all of my magical equipment ready in my dimensional bag, Selys-Lyann worn on my side, and my other weapons stored in my newly- acquired Belt of Swords. Everyone else was wearing their full combat gear, with one noteworthy exception.

I noted that Sera wasn’t wearing Ceris, but then I remembered Keras mentioning that the light mana composite it used interfered with concealment spells. She’d probably made a good choice, she wasn’t a front-line fighter, and the sword had minimal utility for her in most fights. Maybe I could have stored it in my belt, but I wasn’t sure how the belt’s storage would interact with it. The belt didn’t work identically to the Jaden Box — I wasn’t even sure it could store Ceris. I’d have to be careful about where to test that, too.

Ceris was a strange gift for Sera. What was Katashi’s motivation for choosing it, anyway? He had to have other magical items that would be more appropriate for a Summoner, even if her attunement was disabled. Maybe he expected her to trade it to Ferras for healing? If so, whydidn’t he just say that? Did he just…hand her the first thing that came to mind? It can’t be that simple.

I pushed that line of questioning out of my mind. There were more urgent things to think about.

The warehouse itself was a very large single-story structure — maybe a hundred feet in each direction — with only a single main entrance. That felt like a fire hazard, but it didn’t seem like the right time to mention that particular thought. From the layout blueprints that Derek had shown us, the warehouse would be split into several rooms — a small entrance room, some offices and restrooms, and then a main storage area near the back.

Derek paused just outside the front door. “Stick close to each other. I’m going to rush anyone who sees us and shut them down before an alarm can be raised. If they do sound the alarm, we retreat after five minutes. I can handle reinforcements if they arrive, but I don’t want this turning into a bloodbath.”

“Everyone ready?” Sera asked. Patrick, Mara, and I gave our approval.

“The other teams are in position. This is theoretically the lowest risk place on our target list, but there’s always the chance one of the leadership figures is here. If that happens, let me handle things. If we run into an Emerald- level opponent, get out and let me handle it. No heroics. Having to protect you will only slow me down.”

Another series of nods, although I couldn’t say I agreed. I hadn’t sparred with Derek anywhere near as frequently as I had with Keras, but I thought I had a pretty good idea of his capabilities. Derek could have handled the entire rest of our group in a fight, but that didn’t mean we were too weak to contribute if he went up against another Emerald. From the look in Mara’s eyes, I suspected she wasn’t planning to follow his instructions, but I didn’t say anything. Maybe I should have, but I trusted her to be able to handle herself and make good decisions.

“Three…two…one…go.”

Derek flicked the front door of the building. It flew straight off the hinges and smashed against the back wall of the entrance room. I winced at the impact, braced for the sound, but I didn’t even hear a whisper.

The room was empty. I mean, not entirely empty — there was a table in the center, a couple chairs, and playing cards on the table. The cards were distributed across the table, meaning they represented the middle of a game. I frowned at that. Had someone left in a hurry?Did they know we were coming, or had something else interrupted the card game?If the others noticed, they didn’t say. We pushed in right behind Derek as planned. He threw open the door to the administration room on the right — and that one wasn’t abandoned. Two people spun toward the door the moment it opened, then Derek was moving. I felt a gust of wind as he rushed forward, then slammed a finger into each of their heads. There was a purple flash with each impact, then the two people collapsed to the ground without a word.

“Are they…” Patrick began.

“Sleeping.” Derek said. “New contract. Follow.”

I glanced down at the two sleeping figures. They looked no older than I was — probably other second-year students. I wasn’t surprised to see that, but…it still hurt to see other students directly involved. There was a part of me that wanted to blame the whole Sons of Valia situation on older generations, since they tended to be more traditionalist… but the young weren’t immune to the allure of privilege. If I’d attended more parties and social functions, I suspected I would have seen these people among the upper crust of the people there.

…And if I’d lived just a little differently, I could have been one of them.

I tried not to think too much about that.

Derek made a hard right into a bathroom, blurred through it to check all the stalls, then exited. “Clear. Moving forward.”

He led us to another office on the opposite side of the entrance room, incapacitated a group of four just as quickly as he’d handled the two in the other room, and then cleared out that bathroom as well.

After that, it left only the main warehouse.

“Should we be doing something with these unconscious people? Disarming them, checking for identification?” I asked.

“Speed is more important right now,” Derek replied. “I didn’t sense anything go off when I busted in the door, but it’s very possible that there’s already an alarm we missed. Stay focused. Our priority is getting back out of here alive, ideally with more information on their leadership. Everything else is secondary.”

I nodded. Derek pushed open the final door to the warehouse proper.

It was pitch black inside. Not just the darkness of midnight, but an absolute void, like some of the spire doorways I’d seen.

Derek wordlessly threw a globe of light through the doorway. The sphere illuminated a few feet ahead as it moved, showing what looked like an ordinary warehouse filled with huge shipping crates.

At least the door probably isn’t a teleporter, then. The room just has some kind of magical darkness effect on it.

…Or, I suppose, there could still be a teleportation effect on the door, but one that doesn’t apply to light magic, so maybe we should—Before I could finish thinking, Derek was already stepping in. He didn’t vanish, which was good.

I did see something distant flashing within the room, though, which was bad.

“Tripped something. I don’t hear an alarm, but it could be sending messages somewhere. Our five minutes have officially started. Move in.” Derek took a few steps forward, then hurled a few more spheres of light, spreading illumination across the chamber. We followed him into the room.

I stepped in just moments before one of Derek’s orbs illuminated the back of the chamber, giving us a clear look at the figure sitting on one of the boxes.

He was tall and skinny, almost to the point of emaciation. His dyed-green hair stood out in contrast to his pristine white business suit. He held a large book in his hands, but he turned to face us as the light washed over him. “You’ve come at the perfect time.”

Saffron slammed the book shut. “I’ve always hated happy endings.”

