CHAPTER XXXXI – THE HAND ON THE BOARD

I took an instinctive step back, even knowing it was useless. No amount of distance would make any meaningful impact on my chances of surviving the moments that followed.

The strange woman hadn’t given her name, but she hadn’t needed to. She had a name I’d known since my youngest years, filling stories meant to teach children to behave. Tarren tales and nursery rhymes.

I could recognize her, too. I’d seen her resemblance in her descendants. Nora Haven had looked particularly similar, but I could see some similarity to Anette as well. Perhaps more strangely, she had an obvious resemblance to Elora Theas, perhaps as a result of marriages between their powerful families in ancient history.

…Or perhaps more recently. After all, there were plenty of legends of demigods leaving children scattered in their wake throughout history. And there were few demigods with more tales than Aayara Haven, the World Thief.

Several thoughts rushed through my mind upon recognizing her, but they mostly amounted to realizing that we’d just done exactly what Keras had warned us against — we’d either mortally injured or killed one of the Children of the Tyrant. He’d told us there would be consequences for such an action, but…I hadn’t imagined the response would be so immediate.

Had she been watching the entire time? Was there some kind of spell in place that allowed her to sense her little brother’s life fading away?None of that mattered — only my choices in the next few moments did.

Aayara Haven’s eyes fixed on me, seeming to search for something. Then she smiled. “Which one of you naughty children is responsible for all this?”

My mouth opened and closed without sound.

Patrick took a breath, then closed his eyes. “It…please, don’t hurt anyone else. I’ll…just punish me, I’ll—”

Aayara’s hand went up. Visions of fingers tearing straight through a body screamed through my mind.

Nonono—I needed to act, I needed to say something, I needed to— Her hand came down in a blur, impossible to follow…And scratched the hair on the top of Patrick’s head. “What a good little retainer you are, trying to die like that. It’s precious. But you didn’t answer my question.”

Her hand glowed black for an instant. Patrick dropped like a puppet with severed strings.

I took a step forward without thinking about it, Selys- Lyann raised. “What have you done?”

“Oh, relax, pet. Just giving us some privacy to chat, since this one wasn’t going to be useful. The self-sacrificing types never give good answers. But you? I think you’ll answer me, won’t you?”

Her question was simple enough. Who was responsible?Patrick had taken that question one way and tried to throw himself on his sword, but…I simply lowered my own to point it directly at Saffron. “If you’re looking for who is responsible for all this…well, he’s lying at my feet. Unless you’re looking for who was manipulating him, in which case, you’d know better than I would, wouldn’t you?”

“Oh, that’s a wonderful answer.” She clapped her hands together, then plopped down to sit…directly on top of Patrick’s fallen body. “Throwing the blame directly at whoever was controlling Saffron would help to mitigate any responsibility on your part, wouldn’t it? ‘I didn’t kill him, I was just the weapon used by a manipulating third-party’. Hilarious. I haven’t heard that kind of defense in a while. Sadly,” she put a hand over her heart, “someone is going tohave to die today, and some vague villain isn’t quite a good enough culprit. Blood for blood lost, you understand?”

“I…understand, but…” My hand trembled on the hilt. “Please, if you have any mercy—”

Aayara blinked. “Mercy? There can be no mercy in a deadly transaction like this. Only an evening of the score.”

A voice called out from behind us suddenly. “Stop. It’s already been done.”

Aayara’s lips twisted upward as she heard the voice, but she didn’t turn. Her gaze stayed entirely focused on me. “Oh dear, the Blackstone Bandit has arrived! Such a fun little twist. Please, come, sit. Assuming you’re still able.”

Derek Hartigan dragged himself into the remains of the warehouse through the same hole in the wall he’d been launched through. He moved slowly, favoring his right leg. Blood trickled down the right side of his face from an open wound above his eye.

Delsys’ broken blade in his hand, gripped deathly tight.

I was perfectly still as Derek passed right behind Aayara, pausing for an instant, his arm shifting just slightly upward—Then he dropped the lifeless hilt as he slowly lowered himself to take a seat on the ground.

“I thought your pawns might have had a hand in the works of Haven Securities,” he began. “And that they were funding the Sons of Valia. But I didn’t expect your direct involvement.”

“Oh, let’s not talk about old games, dear. This one is still fresh. Now, what were you saying before, little Blackstone?”

“If it’s a life for a life you want…” Derek closed his eyes. “The scales are already more than tipped in your favor.” He waved at the destroyed hilt, then slipped off a pair of broken bracelets and set them down next to Delsys’ fractured form. “Hm. Lives lost in battle, certainly, but I’ve never found the deaths of monsters to be a compelling narrative. Thefamily won’t accept it.”

“They…” Derek exhaled, closing his eyes. Slowly, he lifted his arm. “Weren’t the only ones.”

I couldn’t follow his gesture. I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t lift my head, nor my eyes. I wouldn’t look. I couldn’t look.

“Ah.” Aayara wiped her hands on her legs, then pushed herself to her feet. With a hop and a skip, she crossed the room, kicking a downed pillar out of her path with nothing more than a casual shifting of her foot. “Not quite done yet, though, is she? Close enough, I might say — except I never say that. Shall we close the deal here?”

Not quite—I shot to my feet, still trembling. “What do you mean, not quite?”

Aayara turned to me. “I should think the meaning is quite clear, child. Wouldn’t take more than a poke, then I’ll take the bodies and we can all get back to more pleasant things.”

“No.” I dragged my sword behind me. “You…you can’t have her.”

Aayara gave me a dry look. “I have a museum full of people who used to say things like that.”

That sort of statement should have terrified me. It didterrify me. But if she wasn’t gone, if she wasn’t completely—If my sister wasn’t dead, I absolutely was not going to let anyone take her. Not Saffron, not Aayara, not even the Tyrant in Gold himself.

But this wasn’t a fight I could possibly win. There was no hope against someone like her, not in a direct confrontation. Not even if we’d been fresh.

So, I played a desperate piece that had failed once before. “We are under Wrynn Jaden’s protection.”

Aayara stared coolly at me. “…What was that?”

“We are under Wrynn Jaden’s protection — and Saffron knew that.”

Haunting eyes narrowed, shifted to Saffron’s fallen form, then right back to me.

Her hands moved to her hips, sliding dangerously close to the hilt of a rapier and dagger.

Then she pulled her head back and laughed.

“Well…why didn’t you just say so, silly boy?” She clapped her hands together. Thunder crashed across the room, sending me stumbling and falling back to the ground. “Little Saff knows he’s not supposed to play with Wrynn’s things! Well, knew, I suppose. I don’t think what’s left of him knows very much, now, do you?”

She walked over to Saffron’s body and kicked it once, flipping the body over. “Not pretending, are you? I wouldn’t like that.”

The body didn’t reply.

“Hmpf.” She reached down, grabbed Saffron by the wrist, then wrenched his limp body upward with a snap of bone. His body flopped against her, then she sighed. “I suppose I’ll send someone to clean this up. You behave yourselves better from now on, okay?”

She lifted a hand, clearly preparing to leave—And, against every rational instinct, I stood again to stop her.

“Wait. Please.”

“Oh, sure! Did you still want me to kill you or something?Life can be pretty stressful.” “I want to make a trade.”

“A trade? A trade! Wonderful. I do love trades.” She discarded Saffron’s body with a thump. “What were you thinking?”

Derek pushed himself back a step on the ground to avoid the falling body and gave me a “what the resh are you doing” look.

“I…” I pointed at the body that I’d been refusing to think about. “If she can still be saved…please. Save her.”

Aayara turned and looked at her, then back to me. “You sure you want to do this, kid? The price for that sort of thing…well, it’s not likely the sort of thing you’re going to want to pay.”

“I have a piece of your father.” I lifted Selys-Lyann. Aayara’s eyebrow went up. “Do you, now?”

The sword was in her hands a moment later. I don’t know how it got there. “Hmpf. Tiny bit, maybe. And it’s a piece of the True Blade — that’d have some sentimental value to dear ol’ Dad. Not a bad bargaining chip, as far as these things go.”

She flipped the sword over…then hurled it at me.

Or rather, at the ground right next to me. The sword sank into the ground straight down to the hilt.

“But I don’t want him remembering that sort of thing, do I? Oh, no. That wouldn’t do at all.” She tsked, shaking her head. “Cute idea, but I’m going to need something a little better.”

“…What about the other sword?” I hesitated to offer Bright Reflection, given that it wasn’t mine, but…Patrick would understand. A life was more important. “It’s a copy of—”

“Oh, I know exactly what that little toy is. Believe me, there are layers of irony to finding Saffron impaled on a reproduction of that particular blade. The last time I saw a scene like this…” Aayara sounded wistful, shaking her head. “The first apprentice — now there was a talent. Shame what my dear Jack had to do to her. But I have plenty of mementos of that day — we all do. No, dear. You’ll need to offer me something with more substance than a paladin’s plaything.”

Derek sucked in a breath. “Six months.”

Aayara’s head twisted toward him, her eyes suddenly glittering. “What’s that, my dear pet?”

“Service. I’ll work for you, do your bidding, as long as it doesn’t involve killing the—”

“Six years.” Her tone was neutral.

Derek drew in a deep breath, hesitating for a moment.

I looked at him, watched his eyes turn to the bodies, then—“I…I accept your…”

“Wonderful!” Aayara clapped, but lightly this time. “Iwould have settled for one, by the way, but it’s so good to know that you’re so easily breakable! This is going to be a delightful time for us both.”

Derek shivered. “I…wait. How about three—“”

Aayara snapped her fingers. Derek vanished in a burst of shadows.

Then Aayara turned to me. “Now, a deal is a deal.” She reached into a bag at her side, frowned, then fished something out of it. A simple glass vial. “She won’t be the same, you know.”

Then Aayara tossed the vial to me— Or, rather, in front of me.

“Oops!”

Transcendent Haste. Accelerated Computation.

Three steps forward, hand up eighty-four degrees, close—I grabbed the vial out of the air. Slowly, I opened my hand, shivering. It was completely empty.

“Dispose of that trash for me, would you?”

I turned to find Aayara kneeling at my sister’s side.

She flicked a finger into Sera’s still-gaping chest wound,then turned and smiled at me. “I’ll see you later, Corin Cadence, Wielder of Therin’s Thorn.”

Aayara winked and vanished— Sera coughed.

