CHAPTER XXXX – THE THIRD PLAYER

Derek’s hands flashed across his body, drawing Tavare in a flash of gold.

Simultaneously, or at a speed so similar that I couldn’t determine the difference, Saffron snapped his fingers. A wall of stone erupted behind us, sealing not only the exit door, but the entire rear wall of the chamber.

“Saffron protocols!” I shouted.

Against certain opponents, a tight formation was disadvantageous. Mizuchi, for example, used wide area-of- effect attacks. Clustering together just presented her with easier targets.

Saffron, from everything we’d seen — and from what Keras had told us from his own encounters — tended to prefer to tear his opponents apart with his bare hands.

We’d postulated that by having blades ready in every direction, we could cover his angles of approach and make it more challenging for him to push inward for a lethal strike. This was, of course, predicated on being able to keep up with him…and we had other plans for that.

…Of course, that required that we didn’t fail the process at Step 1.

We’d practiced several times, but reality was always different. Derek shifted in front of us protectively, as expected, and Mara moved to my right side while Sera moved behind me.

Patrick froze.

Just having him out of formation made him vulnerable, and that might have been a critical problem if Saffron had done what we’d expected.

Instead, as Mara blurred forward in alarm and grabbed Patrick to pull him into his place in our tight grouping, Saffron simply stared at us.

“…Saffron protocols?” The Child of the Tyrant in Gold turned to look straight at me, incredulous. “You thought you could prepare for me? How delightfully arrogant of you.”

My grip tightened on Selys-Lyann. Belatedly, I remembered that actually drawing my sword was required, but I held off on that now that we were in formation. I had another role to play first.

Internally, I thanked the universe that villains still defaulted to monologues as I began to work.

“We suspected you might be the one pulling the puppet strings, but we couldn’t quite be certain. After all, if you wanted revenge, why go through such indirect measures? Why bother luring us here?”

Saffron’s face twisted as he burst into laughter. “Luring you here? For a moment, I thought you were clever, Cadence. That you’d sorted everything out on your own. You think this was all about you? With that level of egocentrism and paranoia, I’m surprised we aren’t related.”

I flinched at that thought, but I kept talking. I had to keep talking, at least a little longer. “If not revenge, then what’s all this really about?”

“Revenge. Ugh. You’re such a child. On my hit list, you hardly even rate.” He shook his head. “This was never about you. None of you are worth my attention, aside from the fake Hartigan.”

Derek took a step forward, almost too far. “The fakeHartigan? You want to say that again?”

“Oh, don’t be upset. I’m not judging you for it. Being adopted can be even more significant than blood ties, at least for some.” Something about Saffron’s tone was subtly different there…like he was speaking from experience, maybe. And twinged with bitterness about it. “But blood matters with your family more than most.”

“You’re a few centuries out-of-date on that. Adoption has been a regular practice in House Hartigan since we migrated. I’m not ashamed of it.”

Derek said that, but he didn’t step back into formation, either.

“You misunderstand. Your blood isn’t important because of tradition. You’re a fake Hartigan because without Blake’s blood, there’s no chance that he’ll intervene.” Saffron smiled. “And I’m afraid a second-rate swordsman like you isn’t enough to threaten me on your own.”

Derek almost stepped forward again, but Sera gently set a hand on his shoulder. “Not now.”

Derek tensed, but stepped back.

“If this isn’t about us, then, what’s your game?” I asked. “Oh, it’s not my game.” Saffron smiled. “Not entirely. Notyet. But to understand that, you’d need a broader view of the board — one I don’t have time to prepare you for.”

I tried to look like I was considering his statement. “Is it your sister’s game, then? Or your brother’s?”

A bit of a cold reading trick there. I knew he had “siblings” in the other Children of the Tyrant. Many, many of them. If something wasn’t “his”, there was a good chance it had something to do with one of his siblings, most likely Aayara or Jacinth, the eldest of the tyrant’s children.

“You do know a bit of something, don’t you?” Saffron looked at me quizzically. “You mentioned Sterling in our last encounter. At first, I thought that was just a desperate ploy to save yourself, but…there’s something that feels familiar about you. Why is that?”

I shivered. I couldn’t help but notice eyes turning toward me when they should have been focused on our enemy.

…And the focus of something that wasn’t quite a gaze, too, coming from a weapon at my side.

“We all have our secrets. Perhaps you’d be willing to trade?”

Saffron laughed. “Oh, you’re a fun one. Maybe I’ll keep a part of you around to remember you by. Your arm, perhaps? I did some reading on you — that has some real value. AnArbiter mark. That’s a rare catch. I wonder who I’ll give it to.”

My hand tightened. “Is that the plan, then? Take all attunement marks from people, give them to your chosen few?”

“Oh, goodness, no. That’s just a side benefit. A bit of extra motivation for the greedy. No, Corin. In terms of strategies, I’m playing one of the oldest moves in the book.” “Turn your enemies on one another.” Sera spoke coldly,without inflection.

“More like on themselves, but you get the general idea.” Saffron turned toward Sera…which was bad. She wasn’t supposed to be drawing his attention.

If Saffron moved suddenly, she was one of the least likely to survive the critical first moments.

She kept talking anyway. “You’ve been stoking hatred and distrust throughout Valia to weaken the nation as a whole. With our political structure vulnerable, you can insert your own agents to take control — or perhaps even cripple us enough to prepare for an invasion.”

“Ah.” Saffron smiled. “It is wonderful to be understood, if only on a surface level. Yes, it’s really quite simple at the core, isn’t it? People hate easily. All you have to do is tell them, ‘this group is trying to take what you already have’. You don’t even have to say that the others don’t deserve it— they’ll fill in that bit on their own. After all, anyone different is inferior, aren’t they? That’s just how humans think. Especially humans who think they have real power.”

“People…they’re not all like that!” Patrick shouted suddenly. “There are…there are people who…who take risk, who make sacrifices…even for people who they’ve never met!”

“Yes, yes, there are the Antonia Meltlakes of the world, always striving to make things better at any cost to themselves. Who do you think those people enamored with their own prestige hate the most? There’s a reason she’s nolonger a Hartigan, boy. She’s already lost her family. What do you think happens next? The flames that blaze the brightest burn out faster than any others — especially when they’re on their own.”

“She isn’t alone.” Derek shook his head.

“Oh, I’m sorry, she has the support of the boy that got her crippled. Forgive me for that oversight.”

Derek’s fist tightened. “Say that again and—”

“Let’s dispense with the charade, shall we?” Saffron sighed. “You haven’t attacked because you’re not ready. I’m not blind.” He waved a hand toward our group. “You’re up to something. Get on with it, I’m not waiting forever. Please, amuse me.”

“Wait,” Sera said, holding up an open palm. “We’re under Wrynn Jaden’s protection.”

Saffron tilted his head to the side. “…Well, now. Thatdoes change things.”

When I saw the smirk spreading across his face, my heart froze in my chest.

“I’m going to enjoy this twice as much now.” Saffron looked straight at Sera. “Thank you for that.”

Nope. Not waiting for him to attack.

“Return.” My circlet flashed.

Predictably, nothing happened, but it was worth a try.

“Is that all? Preparing for a retreat?” Saffron pulled a hand back. “A shame. I was—”

My last word — the effect I’d known wouldn’t work — had been enough to pump a sufficient mana supply into the air.

So, I used the real one. “Mass Haste.”

Transference mana flashed across the bodies of everyone standing in our tight cluster.

And with my spell completed, everyone launched into motion.

Activate Spessartine. New power flooded through me as additional attunement functions clicked into place.

“Vanniv, I invoke you.” Stone plates formed across Sera’s body.

“Resplendent Raiment!” Waves of light flashed from Bright Reflection, spreading across Patrick’s body then melding into his shroud.

Mara didn’t speak, she just shifted her hands to her sides, projecting twin blades of raw cutting force.

Derek cracked his neck. One of his bracelets, a white one I’d seen Keras practicing with, flashed and formed a momentary image of armor over his entire body before it vanished into invisibility. “You should know that I was half- asleep and half-equipped during our last little soiree. You won’t—”

Derek flinched back, as if he’d been struck by something I hadn’t seen.

Then he lifted his fingers up to his neck. They came back covered in blood.

Saffron smiled. “You were saying?”

So far as I could tell, Saffron hadn’t even moved.

Derek let out a low hiss, then shifted into a traditional Form Four dueling stance, his right hand extended forward and Tavare’s blade pointed downward. His left hand settled on Delsys’ hilt.

“I was saying,” Derek glared across the room, “you haven’t seen anything yet. Delsys, wings!”

Blazing wings burst from Derek’s back and carried him forward in a sudden surge of speed. Saffron raised an eyebrow as Derek closed in, then simply twisted to the side as Derek’s gold-bladed sword flashed upward, cutting through the space where Saffron had been—“Shine!”

Tavare’s blade shined with blinding illumination, a technique that Derek had copied from Keras’ stories of Dawnbringer. Tavare’s mana types weren’t quite identical, but it turns out that blinding illumination isn’t exactly hard for an Emerald-level light entity of any flavor to produce.

Saffron shut his eyes remarkably fast, but Derek swung around while Saffron winced, slashing a wide cut across Saffron’s chest.

Saffron hissed, steam rising from the cut, and took a couple steps backward, his eyes still closed.

“Don’t like light much, do you? Shame. We brought a lot of it.” Derek stepped in for another swing, only to abort it rapidly and jump as the ground shifted beneath him, dozens of spikes shooting upward. “Stealing Elora’s techniques now?”

“I’ll take anything that works.” Saffron flicked a finger in Derek’s direction.

I didn’t see anything — Derek just flew backward, slamming into one of the warehouse walls hard. He started to rise again immediately, but during the moment things were down, things went very badly.

“Saffron Protocols” had a few key elements. We had several layers to them, contingencies for different scenarios, but there was a single critical element that our training scenario had made clear—We needed to keep Saffron’s attention on Derek.

If Saffron ever took his eyes off Derek, someone was going to die.

…And his eyes turned toward my sister.

I swung Selys-Lyann immediately, a hail of crescents of frost flashing across the room. Saffron snapped his fingers, a shockwave of invisible force shattering the ice in mid-air.

Patrick shot upward, his flying maneuverability limited in such a confined space, but it was enough to give him a bit of space to attack from a different angle. He pointed his newly-improved Bright Reflection at Saffron, but he didn’t have a chance to swing before he began to choke, some unseen spell forcing him to gasp and clutch at his throat.

Mara rushed Saffron with a roar, but he swept his hand sideways, a wave of force manifesting and smashing her into one of the nearby support pillars. She wobbled a littleas she stood, her outermost shield showing cracks at the force of the impact.

“Seiryu, I invoke you!” Sera extended her hands in front of her. “Freeze forever!”

I felt it before I saw it — the entire room’s temperature rapidly dropping. There was no warning, no typical projectile to block. When the air in the room began to shimmer, I didn’t understand what was happening at first. Not until Saffron’s entire body began to shimmer and went rigid.

The water in the air, I realized, she’s freezing it.

“Not a bad trick,” Saffron’s voice seemed to come from everywhere at once. “God Beast Summoners are always a delight.”

Mara charged at the frozen figure, ready to shatter him with a gleaming fist, but Derek moved faster, ramming into her and hurling her across the room, then swung around and swept his sword through the seemingly empty air.

There was a loud crack as Tavare stopped in mid-air — then a shockwave shook the room, sending me stumbling back a step as I processed what was happening.

Another Saffron had appeared — and he’d caught Derek’s sword between two fingers.

He was invisible, I realized. He would have hit Mara from behind if Derek hadn’t seen it. But now…“Radiance,” Saffron spat. “One of my least favorites, but it’ll—”

Derek’s free hand drew Delsys straight into a cut, which Saffron avoided by seemingly teleporting back a dozen feet. He landed right next to the still-frozen Saffron, laying a hand on the statue’s shoulders. “A shame. He had a wonderful voice.” He punched straight through the frozen figure’s neck.

The body collapsed, an illusion collapsing along with it, revealing a figure in a standard student uniform.

I didn’t recognize the corpse. As per usual, Sera was better with people.

“Tyler Sanctum. I…I didn’t mean to…”

Saffron turned to her. “Fall for one of the world’s simplest tricks?” He shook his head. “Don’t worry, child. You won’t have to be ashamed for long.”

“Freeze for—”

A flick of Saffron’s finger sent Sera stumbling backward, the rocky armor around her chest crumbling.

Derek came in swinging both blades, but Saffron simply ducked around each blade, then said, “Stop.”

The Child of the Tyrant looked briefly startled when Derek’s figure blurred, swinging both blades in a burst of accelerated speed from his blazing wings. “Nah.”

Saffron should have been hewed in half, but he simply vanished before the two swords connected, reappearing right behind Derek.

“Impressive resistance. A rarity.”

Derek spun around, his own speed too fast for me to follow properly, but Saffron stepped back out of range of each swing.

Mara came at Saffron from behind, her essence blades flashing, but Saffron dodged her blows even more easily.

I didn’t charge in with them — even with my vastly- improved speed, I couldn’t hope to keep up in melee. Instead, I concentrated on my left hand, reshaping mana into a variant on one of my established techniques.

There was no time to count to five.

Light Wave Fist.

Light, transference, and a hint of transcendence swirled in my fingertips as I punched the air, sending a fist-sized burst of light across the room.

It was well-known that light produced some of the fastest possible forms of ranged attacks. With transference and transcendence adding to it, the burst of resplendent energy traveled faster than any attack I’d ever attempted.

It was too fast for me to even see how Saffron evaded it.

With a pirouette, Saffron dodged more swings from both Mara and Derek, seemingly with minimal effort. Patrick had finally recovered from whatever spell had gripped his throat, but when he conjured a column of fire to descend from above, Saffron simply glanced upward and it vanished into nothingness.

“You shouldn’t be this fast,” Derek growled, pulling back for a moment to warily shift his stance.

“Did you imagine that our last meeting was a representation of my true strength? You were dragged freshly out of bed, with only a modicum of your equipment and power — I was even less prepared when I responded to an emergency signal from one of my useless toys. You should be honored,” Saffron grinned as a sword flashed harmlessly right in front of his face, “I spent five whole minutes getting ready for you this time.”

Saffron slammed his fists together. The ground beneath us rippled.

I reacted purely on instinct.

Jump!I launched myself upward as the floor briefly liquefied. Derek was even faster, jumping rapidly, but a blast of invisible force caught him in mid-air and hurled him backward.

The others didn’t react as quickly. Patrick was airborne, but Mara and Sera were both caught as the stone gave way, dropping down to their ankles before the floor resolidified, locking them in place.

Mara responded immediately by hacking downward to begin to free herself. Saffron ignored her —He’d turned straight back to Sera. “Freeze forever!”

The air around Saffron shimmered—Only for an explosion of blistering heat to explode outward from Saffron’s body, sending a torrent of steam into the air.

The effect was near-instant, but I saw a hint of brilliant wings lingering in the air around him as the flames exploded outward. An echo of a familiar spell—The Sapphire-level spell that Elora Theas had used to call on the power of Suzaku, the God Phoenix.

Saffron hadn’t simply survived Elora’s terrifying spell the year before. He’d absorbed part of it.

“Your people say that water beats fire,” Saffron said, “but there’s a more important rule. Power beats everything.” He dusted himself off. “You were talented for your age. That said, you’ve overplayed your part, so it’s over now.”

“Wall!” Sera shouted, panicked.

Spells aren’t instantaneous. Everyone knows that.

The casting time of a spell is usually dependent on the amount of time it takes to covert the mana necessary for a spell and then release it in the proper configuration. Once that mana is properly assembled and released, however, the spell’s effect is, as a general rule, nearly instant.

When a Lung Marked casts a spell, they’re trained to release exactly the right amount of mana with the words they use for a spell. This means that, for example, when Sera shouted “Wall!”, she’d already completed the mana assembly process. She’d cast the spell.

Saffron didn’t move until after the word was spoken. I was certain of it—And yet, somehow, when her wall materialized, he was already next to Sera.

She stumbled backward. Mara rushed forward in a blur, only for Saffron to wave a hand contemptuously in her direction, sending Mara hurtling backward into another building wall.

Saffron turned back to Sera. “Hi. You’re quite the interesting one, aren’t you? I haven’t seen your attunement before.”

Sera glared back at him. “Keras Selyr—” “Isn’t here.”

Saffron punched straight through Sera’s chest.

Patrick screamed, swinging Bright Reflection. A room- width blade of light rippled across the room, shredding everything in its path—Saffron simply discarded Sera and vanished, reappearing next to Patrick.

I looked to Patrick stumbling backward as he swung Bright Reflection defensively — and to Sera’s bleeding body— and made a choice.

Transcendent Haste.

I felt an immediate spike of pain in my mind as I pushed transcendence mana into the spell. I couldn’t maintain it for long — the side effects of overusing transcendence mana were…Well, they were everything I’d ever feared in terms of destroying my mind.

Three transcendence spells was still my theoretical limit for safe use. I’d already used two.

I moved faster than I’d ever moved to reach Sera’s side. She was absolutely covered in blood. Her eyes were open, blinking rapidly, but without seeing.

Nonono.

I knelt at her side, then put my hand straight on top of the wound.

Transcendent Regeneration.

My vision went black for just an instant. Then I cast it again.

And again. And again. And again. No, no, no.

Transcendent Regeneration.

I poured every sliver of mana I could find in my body into it, then fumbled with numb fingers through my bag for…Everything. Anything and everything I could drain.

}You will kill yourself if you continue this.{Absently, I processed that something was talking to me, but it wasn’t important. People were fighting, too. I could see flashes of light, hear the sounds of spells cracking the air—“Corin.”

Transcendent Regeneration.

“Corin!”

Transcendent Regeneration.

“Corin, stop!” “I…I…”

Someone grabbed me. I shook violently, looking up to see Mara. She had a long cut across her face from her right ear across her cheek.

“Sorry. Know you don’t like bein’ touched, but you need to stop, Corin. I’ll take over.”

I frowned. “You’ll…take over.” What was I doing? “Can you still fight?” Mara asked me.

I blinked. Fight. Yes, I could fight. I wasn’t hurt. Someone—I glanced up.

Derek	was	dancing	backward	across	the	warehouse,blocking blades of force. Someone…the enemy…was pursuing him at a casual pace, occasionally flicking a hand backward to effortlessly deflect a panicked blast of lightning from Patrick.

Tyrant’s…child…enemy…My jaw tightened.

“Yes.” I stood up. “I can fight.”

I wobbled on my feet. My arm felt numb, heavy. Why was that?When did my sword get so heavy?I frowned at that, but I couldn’t let it bother me. I had to beat…Saffron, was it?There he was.

I charged at his back.

Saffron must not have noticed me at first. This was, perhaps, a lingering effect of Derek’s anti-perception spell. I’d spoken in front of Saffron, but perhaps that hadn’t been enough to fully draw his attention and break the spell entirely.

Or…maybe I simply hadn’t been worth Saffron’s notice.

So, I managed to get within a few feet of him before he reacted…simply turning and flicking a finger in my direction.

I	don’t	know	what	happened	next.	I	simply	hit	the ground.

Then, I was coughing.

There was blood on my hands. Why was that? Pain.

}You cannot fight like this.{Who…? Oh, Thorn. Hello.

}You were a fool to overextend yourself like that. Casting a spell like that over and over, far beyond the point when…{I blinked.

What was he talking about?I pushed myself to my feet. I was fighting someone. I had to fight…Saffron. Right. I was fighting Saffron.

I wouldn’t let him hurt my friends. Not—Pain shot through my mind. I trembled, turning—}Don’t look that way.{I stopped, turning back toward where Derek had managed to disperse the floating blades with some kind of technique. He’d managed several savage blows on Saffron’s arms, drawing blood—So much blood, so much blood—But…Saffron was just laughing. Why was he laughing? Was something funny?I didn’t get the joke.

I just…pushed forward, standing again without realizing it, then I was swinging my sword.

Saffron dodged the ice that emerged from my swing, then a blast of light from across the room tore a sizzling holethrough Saffron’s shoulder.

Oh, Patrick was there. Hi, Patrick.

}Withdraw, you fool. You cannot hope to defeat one of my children. He toys with you, even now.{Saffron might have turned toward Patrick, but Derek was on top of him a moment later, swinging his shiny sword that had a name I should have known, but at that moment, didn’t.

Saffron grabbed the sword with both hands, then hissed as the blade burned his fingers and let go, taking a step back. With a wave of his hand, Saffron sent dozens of chunks of glittering black stone hurtling through the air. Derek avoided most of them, but a couple of the smaller shards clipped him, lacerating his arms and sending him back a few steps.

I lunged at Saffron from behind, only for him to dodge the attack with contemptuous ease. I saw lightning arcing between Saffron’s fingertips — then my vision went white.

For several moments, I was aware without being fully awake. I groaned, hearing someone shout something that I couldn’t recognize, then there were hands on my shoulders.

I shook.

“It’s okay, Corin. You’re okay. You need to wake up.”

I blinked upward. It was…Mara? Wasn’t she supposed to be somewhere else?”

“You need to escape, Corin. You need to—”

Something hurled Mara out of my vision. I heard her crash into something in the distance. I blinked, then turned to see Saffron hovering above me, not far from reach.

Saffron. I felt a moment of brief clarity. He’s the one who—My hand tightened around the grip of Selys-Lyann still in my hands.

I growled and lurched back to my feet. Saffron let me stand. He let me swing.

He batted my sword out of the way without the slightest hint of effort.

“Such a shame to see such a grand weapon fall into such ill-suited hands,” he tsked.

Another swing. Another miss.

“Fast. Very fast, in fact. I’ve rarely seen humans with your raw speed.” Saffron gave me a disapproving look. “But you’ve burned yourself out, haven’t you? A shame, really.”

I still had Transcendent Haste active, of course. I’d never turned it off — and it was ripping me apart more and more with every passing moment.

I swung and swung…and swung again. I met only air. Distantly, I was aware of someone yelling, but I couldn’t tell who it was. I could barely tell who I was, or…Maybe that was the problem, wasn’t it? Maybe I wasn’t the right person for the job.

Didn’t	someone	offer	to	take	over	for	me	earlier?Maybe…maybe I just needed a little break.

Hey, I thought, you’ll take over for a bit, won’t you?}I will not flee like a coward — and certainly not from him.{I frowned.

Why would we run? You can beat him, can’t you?I	heard	something	in	my	mind	that	sounded	like… melodious laughter.

I didn’t get that joke, either, but I was glad that someone was happy.

}I suppose someone has to teach that stubborn child a lesson. Are you ready?{Yes, please.

Then I felt my mind sharpen — even if it was no longer my own.

***Thorn straightened his back, then stretched his arms. “Well,” he said, “this isn’t quite the family reunion I was expecting, but I suppose it’s a beginning. Hello, dear child.”

Silence.

Then Saffron’s lips slowly spread apart. “Oh. Oh. Now thisis unexpected.”

The false Blackstone took that moment to make an opportunistic strike, which was nothing unexpected to Thorn. It was an excellent move, worthy in precision and speed, elegantly angled to pierce directly through Saffron’s back.

It was almost successful. That wouldn’t have been a satisfying end, however, and so, his shadow caught in place, arresting his movement for just a moment.

Saffron’s eyebrow went up, then he turned to face the false Blackstone. “You. Stay.”

Derek froze in place for just a moment…then lunged again, causing Saffron’s eyes to narrow in frustration.

“Again, you resist.” Saffron hissed as his hand flashed to the side, narrowly deflecting the radiance-bonded blade, then took a glancing cut across the face from the phoenix- bound one. Saffron hissed as he hurled a blast of flame, which the false Blackstone countered with a simple sweep of the burning brand in his off-hand. “You’ve begun to irritate me.”

Thorn felt a moment of anguish at the child’s obvious lack of preparation for such a basic failure with compulsion magic, barely stopping himself from interceding again. Instead, he stepped back for a moment, assessing his own condition.

Spirit Art: Rapid Recovery.

Spirit essence flowed through Thorn’s borrowed form, rapidly repairing the damage to star veins that had already begun to tear from recent overuse. The Dianis Point in his forehead began to mend itself, but not quickly enough to restore full functionality.

Unfortunate. I will need to rely on the limited abilities of the hand and the feeble remains of his spirit. This will need to be brief.

Spirit Art: Body of the Transient Immortal.

New strength and speed flooded through his limbs, but it was only a fraction of what he needed to match his opponent. He exhaled a breath as Saffron narrowly dodged the false Blackstone’s lunge.

“I’m busy with something more interesting than you,” Saffron growled. “Stay out of this.”

Saffron clapped his hands together and the air around the false Blackstone shimmered for an instant before he froze in mid-swing.

Ah. A stolen copy of the god beast’s frost, combined with a standard stasis spell. Wasteful to apply it to such a broad area, but it’s pleasing to see that the child has at least expanded his repertoire of dominion options.

Now…how much can be wrested from this mark?Thorn lifted his left hand, inspecting it, frowning, and then lowering it. “Now, child. With that interruption handled, we should discuss matters. You must have been aware of my presence here.”

Saffron turned back to Thorn, looking annoyed. “I sensed something, of course. A familiarity — you heard me say that, yes?”

Thorn’s head bobbed up and down. “You must work on the precision of your senses, child. You should have been able to identify any fraction of me from a great distance. But you always were the runt of the litter, weren’t you?”

Saffron’s expression darkened. “You have no right to speak to me like that.”

“Do I not? Is not even the smallest fragment of your father worthier than you?”

Saffron’s eyes narrowed and his fists tightened. “You presume much, spirit. If we are counting fractions of my father, one would have to bow before every shadow and blade of grass.”

“Oh, I am aware, child. Are you as worthy as they?”

“Careful, spirit.” Saffron took a step forward, so close that he was nearly eye-to-eye with Thorn. “I was considering allowing you to keep that body and serve me. The parallels would amuse me. But continue to offend me and—”

Thorn’s forehead smashed into Saffron’s nose, releasing a burst of transference mana. Saffron staggered backward, nose bleeding. Thorn’s blade whipped up, drawing a thin line along Saffron’s arm.

“One point to me.”

Ice spread across the wound in the shape of a vine.

Saffron’s	hand	reached	down	and	crushed	it.	In		an instant, the icy vine withered and died, then vanished into nothingness.		“You’re	a	fool.	Essence,		no	matter		how creatively structured, is still nothing more than food for me.” Thorn nodded in acknowledgement. “Of course.” Thorn stepped backward, then lifted his sword to shoulder-level and began to circle. “Except, of course, when it is a type youcannot abide.”

“You have nothing of the sort.” Saffron stepped back, seeming just slightly wary. “These children have already tried every tool at their disposal. You’ve made an empty boast, little more. You cannot hope to fight me with that tattered shell.”

“Please,” Thorn’s lips spread wide, “test me.”

Saffron lunged, blade-like force forming around his fingertips.

Spirit Art: Dance of the Wicked Vine.

Thorn side-stepped the lunge, as if it was the most predictable move in the world, then tapped the floor with a toe.

Glowing white vines shot up from the floor. Saffron’s eyes widened a fraction as he jumped backward to avoid them — right into the path of more glowing vines, which burst from one of the building’s support pillars.

Saffron spun, swinging his force-cutting fingertips to sever the vines.

In that moment of weakness, Thorn tapped his sword on Saffron’s shoulder.

“Second point.”

Saffron spun with a growl. “This is not your game.”

“Oh?” Thorn tilted his head to the side. “Whose is it, then? Certainly not yours.”

Saffron roared, surging with such sudden ferocity that Thorn found himself rapidly retreating. Two rapid thrusts attempted to stay Saffron’s path, but he simply ignored the bloody rents they left on his skin, just as he ignored so many other wounds.

…But not all of them. The hole burned in his shoulder from a burst of solid light was still bleeding freely without regenerating.

[There,] Corin Cadence’s voice guided, [a weakness.]Do you think I have not seen it? That I have not been paying atten—Saffron’s fist slammed into Thorn’s chest hard enough to carry him half-way across the room. If it were not for the mana-hardened scale armor he wore and the softening of the blow from layers of shields and shrouds, the fist would have torn straight through him, the way that it had so easily ripped through his cursed mirror.

Thorn let out no sound as he recovered his stance. He judged that the impact had likely broken at least two of his ribs, but fortunately, he was not the one who needed to bear that pain. No, he’d taken control of the body, but not every burden.

It was Corin Cadence’s mind that was screaming in agony, regardless of who currently commanded his form.

That deferral of consequences served Thorn well in the moments that followed. Saffron closed in again for another swing, this one at the throat — Thorn shifted to the side, allowing Saffron’s blade-coated fingers to pass right next to his skin, then stomped his foot straight on top of Saffron’s.

Lesson one of fighting a vae’kes was, of course, to never allow the vae’kes to touch you. There were, however, a scarce few situations under which it was permissible for you to touch them.

Spirit mana flared through Thorn’s body and formed a gleaming spike that jammed straight through the top of Saffron’s foot, then twisted, pinning it into the ground.

As Saffron swung another fist, Thorn stepped backward just in time for it to pass through the air in front of him—But the air was enough.

The shockwave of the swing hurled him backward, sending him tumbling to the floor. He was up again in a moment, but he’d miscalculated.

The power differential between them was even greater than he’d anticipated — perhaps more than even exceptionally greater skill and familiarity with Saffron’s fighting style could account for.

Uncertainty.

Thorn’s heart soared in joy. This duel would be the first of many to help reawaken him. And then, once he had gathered his strength—Saffron ripped his foot free from the floor with a pained shudder, then turned his head to Thorn. “You’ve an interesting facsimile of his old fighting style, I’ll give you that.”

“I’m surprised you can remember it. It’s been quite some time, has it not? And yet…you’ve barely grown, haven’t you?”

Saffron flickered and vanished. Thorn spun to the right— Which was the wrong decision. “More than you realize, spirit.”

Saffron’s hand pressed against Thorn’s back. “Fragment of Father, I banish you.”

And Thorn’s mind cracked.

***I hit the ground hard. I probably would have died in the next moment if Derek Hartigan hadn’t jumped straight in Saffron’s path, swinging his sword.

I heard a swish above me, rather than the sound of an impact.

“That,” Derek complained, “was an incredibly frustrating spell.”

“I’m surprised you broke out of it as quickly as you did.” Saffron sounded almost impressed. “But I’m afraid I’m about out of patience for this little encounter.”

“Oh, I’ll remove all your worries right now. Along with your head.”

Another swing above me, again without impact.

I rolled to the side, trying to get out of the way. My head was burning badly, but I felt more coherent than I had before Thorn had taken over. I suspected it had something to do with the spirit-based body reinforcement spell he’d cast accelerating my recovery.

…It hadn’t done anything for my mana, though.

Thorn? Can you hear me?There was no response.

I could remember what had happened — some kind of banishment spell — but I had no idea what a banishment spell would do to a spirit inside an item. Was Thorn… elsewhere, now? Dead? Just inactive?That was a problem for the future, if I lived long enough to have a future.

As I rolled face-upward and saw the blur of movements between Derek and Saffron, I realized that I was more aware, but not necessarily any more capable of doing anything.

…Not directly, at least.

My right arm felt strangely numb, and my fingers were stained with blood — don’t think don’t think don’t think — but I tried to reach into my bag to find something… anything…I could use to help.

I tried sending a message for help. Nothing happened, of course. Saffron had likely blocked it in the same way he’d blocked teleportation.

I tried to syphon mana out of one of my batteries, only to find it already empty.

Don’t remember. Don’t remember. Don’t—Derek hurled himself to the ground just before the room was consumed in fire.

I didn’t have time to defend myself. I was getting faster by the day, but apparently not “react to the room you’re standing in detonating” fast.

My vision went red, then I was hurled backward, slamming hard into a wall just before it was incinerated. I felt a brief surge of pain at the impact, then another as I tumbled to the ground.

I winced at the impact, choking at the sudden onrush of smoke that followed…then pushed myself to my knees and realized I wasn’t nearly as badly hurt as I should have been.

Even with my shrouds and shield sigils, that blast was of a level of intensity that I should have been at least singed, but…My body was covered in ice instead.

Apparently, Selys-Lyann was still defending me, even without Thorn’s consciousness present.

I didn’t have time to thank the sword. While I pushed myself to my knees, I could hear coughing around me in the blazing remains of the building and only Saffron was still on his feet.

…But Mara was struggling back to her own. Just barely.

The remains of Mara’s shroud and sigils had protected her from the blast, but she must have already been badly drained from parts of the battle I hadn’t even seen. Her skin was only reddened in some places, presumably those where she’d prioritized hardening her shroud. In other places, she was burned and blistered so badly that I didn’t understand how she was still standing.

“You’re going to pay for what you did to—”

Saffron was right in front of her in the next moment. “Really? You think you’re going to fight a vae’kes unarmed?” Mara stomped the ground, her aura flaring brighter as she	formed	a	blade	around	her	right	fist	and	swung.

“Diamond Strike of—”

Saffron side-stepped and grabbed her hand mid-swing. “No, I don’t think so.”

Amidst the smoke and flame, I couldn’t see clearly what happened next — I could only hear Mara’s gut-wrenching scream. It lasted only a moment before Saffron simply tapped her on the forehead with his other hand, causing Mara to collapse into a limp heap, curling around the remains of what had once been her right hand.

I trembled at the sight.

Marissa Callahan, likely the strongest physical fighter of our class, had dropped without landing a single attack on her opponent.

At that point, I could have stood up. If I’d been a brave, heroic type like Mara, perhaps I would have rushed to my feet to protect my friends.

Instead, I froze in place, as cold as the armor that protected me.

…But only for a moment.

I remembered the first time I’d seen Saffron tearing through a group of people — and watching helplessly, paralyzed, and knowing that my survival was dependent on his perception of my insignificance.

I’d been terrified of him, then.

In truth? The fear hadn’t changed — but other things had.

I’d grown in power. I’d grown in knowledge. And, perhaps more importantly, I’d come prepared.

I touched a symbol on my Belt of Swords, withdrew a weapon, and with a flick of mana, I changed a rune.

Then, as I rose, I hurled the knife straight at Saffron.

He caught it with contemptuous ease. “Really? Hurling magical items at me? Don’t you know what I—”

Sorry, Sir Shinyshiv.

I’d considered a number of ways to make enchanted explosives. There were lots of methods for it, but for me, the simplest was one I’d already used against Jin, simply perfected with my new skills.

So, when Cecily had noticed that Sir Shinyshiv’s mana was a little too close to the material’s capacity for comfort… well, I might have decided to push that even further when I made my tweaks. Just enough that taking the capacity rune off would cause it to overcharge in…oh, about a second or two.

I’d considered making the changes occur on impact, but I’d never gotten that quite right. Instead, I’d erased the capacity rune manually and hoped for the best when I’d thrown the knife.

And as training with Keras and Patrick had proven, opponents had a habit of automatically catching things I threw at them.

When the knife exploded into shrapnel, it discharged several Sunstone-level batteries worth of mana right at the point of detonation — meaning Saffron’s right hand.

Or, at least, what used to be a right hand. Saffron screamed.

That actually surprised me — when we’d last fought, he’d barely shown any response to injuries.

Did I hit him that hard? I knew he might be weak against light mana, but…As he fell backward, grasping at his ruined fingers, Derek shot upward from the floor and jabbed Tavare’s blade straight through Saffron’s chest.

“That…was…a…good…” Saffron coughed, grabbing Tavare’s blade in his remaining hand, “…effort.”

Something clicked in my mind. “Simulacrum!” I yelled.

Derek’s eyes widened, then suddenly flashed white. He tried to pull back on Tavare’s blade, but Saffron — or rather, the simulacrum of Saffron — held it tight. Derek swore, twisting just before something I couldn’t see hit him from behind, clipping the back of his head.

He released his grip on Tavare’s blade and fell bleeding to the burning floor, then rolled to avoid something that shattered the ground where he’d initially landed.

I pushed more mana into a stronger Detect Aura spell, but I still couldn’t see anything. Coughing, I blindly hurled a blast of transference mana just above where something had impacted the ground, but I didn’t connect with anything.

It was easier to find a target a few moments later. Unfortunately, that was because an invisible Saffron was lifting Derek from the ground by his neck.

Derek choked, kicking the invisible figure in the chest, but it had no obvious effect.

“You have some very nice toys,” came Saffron’s voice. Derek  tried  to  swing  Delsys  at  close-range,  only  forSaffron to catch the blade easily with his own free hand.

I hurled another transference blast straight at that spot.

It impacted without the slightest effect. “N—no,” Derek managed to croak out.

Saffron’s fingers shimmered black and the blistering flames around Delsys’ sword vanished. “Not a bad meal.” His grip tightened and the now-inert blade crumpled like paper.

“N…no,” Derek choked. “Del—”

Derek hurtled backward with such force that he burst through the opposite wall of the warehouse. I had no idea how badly the impact had hurt him, but I understood that what had happened a moment earlier was much worse.

That sword had contained Delsys himself. Not a copy, not a simulacrum. And if Saffron had stolen the power within it—Delsys was gone.

I pushed myself to my feet. There was no point in staying on the floor now, no point in cowering. Saffron knew where I was — and, from what I could tell, I was the only one still up and fighting.

I shivered. My frozen armor shivered with me.

I pulled Selys-Lyann into a guard position, then swung wide and pushed transference into the blade. Not to make a crescent like usual, though. Instead, I pushed in a broader pattern, sending out a broad layer of frost across the entire room. Not enough to cause harm, nor even enough to staunch the flames that were still burning everywhere.

Just enough to reveal an invisible opponent.

I saw his silhouette in frost for just an instant before he was in front of me.

I couldn’t quite see the outline of his smile, but somehow, I felt it.

“Corin Cadence.” Saffron tsked. “You know, the first time we met, I was planning to keep you alive as a battery. But now?”

He kicked the remains of one of the shattered boxes — and I got a good look at what was inside for the first time.

…A severed arm, preserved inside some kind of huge crystalline tube.

“I have a simpler solution.” He flicked a finger upward.

A sudden burst of force slammed into me, hurling me toward a fallen support beam. I swung my sword mid-flight, sending a crescent of ice at him, but he simply battered it aside with a palm.

I smashed into the pillar a moment later, the force driving the wind out of my lungs, and I slumped to the floor.

Saffron was standing above me a moment later. “Ordinarily, I would savor this sort of thing, but you seemlike the insightful sort, so I’m just going to skip the monologue and kill you.”

He brought his hand up, fingers in a blade-like pattern, and—“Body of Dawn.”

The entire room brightened. Saffron’s eyes widened as he turned, then stumbled backward, dodging and weaving in a blur as a cascade of slashes came at him from an opponent with glimmering eyes set in silent purpose.

Saffron’s hand flew up to deflect a swing of the blade—Not this time.

I grabbed Saffron’s ankle, blearily recalling the movement of essence through my body as Thorn had controlled it, and channeled a burst of my remaining spirit mana straight into Saffron’s body.

Saffron barely winced—But a momentary distraction was all Patrick needed.

Bright Reflection’s glistening blade burst through the center of Saffron’s chest.

“You…where did you…” Saffron gazed at the sword embedded in his chest in shock. “…Come from…?”

I understood his confusion — I’d forgotten about Patrick, too.

He hadn’t been invisible or inaudible. He had, however, still been under the effects of Derek’s Mesmer-esque spell that had caused people to ignore his presence. He must have been outside of Saffron’s attention for so long that the spell had managed to reassert itself.

Maybe Patrick had been briefly knocked unconscious.

Maybe he’d simply been too badly injured to move.

Or maybe he’d just wisely realized that he was out of his league…and waited until the very last moment to strike a perfect, fatal blow.

Fatal to any ordinary person, at least.

Saffron looked down at the sword sticking through his chest and frowned. “That…hurt me.”

I didn’t hesitate. I stabbed upward, my own sword piercing through Saffron from behind.

“Huh.”

Saffron looked perplexed for just a moment…then slumped forward toward Patrick, unmoving.

Patrick scampered backward instinctively, knowing that even the slightest deliberate touch from a Child of the Tyrant could be a death sentence…But when Saffron hit the ground, he didn’t move. For several moments, neither did I.

Then, still terrified, I rose and put a boot on his fallen form and pushed, dislodging Selys-Lyann from his body.

Patrick stood over the body, trembling.

I looked upward and understood that it wasn’t just the battle that was affecting him—I found myself shivering in the same instinctive fear at the presence that had appeared behind him.

“Hello, boys.”

A blonde-haired woman in the blackened leather armor favored by thieves of the ancient past stood just behind Patrick, casually laying a hand on his shoulder. “You’ve done a bad thing, haven’t you?”

