CHAPTER IV — ESCAPE

My right hand was trembling as I gripped the hilt of the dueling cane. Part of it was the pain from drawing too much mana, but a larger part was my state of mind.

I’d sided with a prisoner against a visage of the goddess and I... didn’t feel guilt. I felt like I should have done more.

I’d left Keras behind.

I shook my head, trying to regain my focus. Nothing in this tower was safe, and if Keras did fall, I had little doubt that the visage would follow us and finish what he had started.

This room was rectangular, maybe forty feet across. It was clearly divided into sections that were about ten feet each, each section being elevated a bit above the previous section.

I could see a few tiles in each section that were just a sliver thicker than they should have been — probably traps.

There were dozens of fist-sized holes on the side walls of the room.

Probably more traps.

Those weren’t the real problem, though.

Each of those elevated sections in front of us had a set of monsters, and each was more dangerous than the last.

And, predictably, the sole visible exit was on the opposite side of the room.

The monsters in the section right in front of us were the simplest threats possible. Teardrop shaped creatures of gelatinous acid, barely intelligent. Slimes. They were already hopping forward.

Behind them, two massive creatures that resembled bears, but with brown scales and three vicious horns. Barghensi. They were extremely resistant to physical damage, but magic would work — including my dueling cane.

Unfortunately, I could barely even hold it at this point.

There was a cylindrical pillar in that section, right between the barghensi. It wasn’t solid stone like the other ones in the previous room; it was some kind of transparent crystalline structure. Maybe just thick glass, but I doubted I’d be that lucky.

Inside the pillar, I could see a sheathed sword floating in what looked like mid-air. At a second glance, I realized my mistake. The sword was submerged in water.

Finally, right in front of the door, an eight-foot tall bronze statue. It had six arms and each arm carried a different weapon.

Its eyes were glowing with crimson light.

Pretty sure that’s a spire guardian.

Spire guardians were deadly monsters that guarded the ways up to higher floors of the tower. I wasn’t supposed to have to face any during the Judgment. They were strong enough to fight fully trained attuned. I knew I didn’t stand a chance by myself.

Vera glanced at the slimes, then back to me. “Switch.”

I understood her meaning immediately, slipping the dueling cane into her grip and lifting the child out of her arms. I didn’t know what level of skill she had with the weapon, but it was our best chance.

Vera swept her arm across the room, rapidly tapping the button on the hilt as she moved. Blasts of force rippled out of the cane’s tip and slammed into an invisible barrier at the boundary between our section and the one in front of us.

Vera grimaced. “Should have known it wouldn’t be that easy. I’ll have to get up there to take care of those. Wait here for now, yeah?”

I nodded as Vera crept ahead. She ducked at the border of one of the raised tiles and felt along the side of it. Fortunately, she didn’t press it down, but I had no idea what she was doing.

Something to do with her attunement, maybe? Some kind of trap disarming magic?I didn’t see any visible effect when she moved away from the tile. She did something similar along the wall, putting her hand right up against one of the sides of the holes. Then, after a moment, she stuck her hand inside. She pulled it back out a moment later.

She turned her head back toward me. “Don’t step on the raised tiles.” I’m pretty sure I could have guessed that on my own. “Right.”

Then she stepped on the tile closest to her.

She didn’t.

I stepped backward out of instinct, but it wasn’t necessary. The trapsweren’t aimed at me.

A hail of arrows fired out from the holes in the wall directly in line with Vera.

She just grinned, stepped forward, and caught one of the arrows with her off-hand as they whizzed by. She tilted her head to the side after the flurry subsided, inspecting the arrow. “Yeah, these’ll do.”

Then she charged.

She leapt onto the next raised section without resistance. Apparently that barrier was only meant to stop magic, not people.

As she landed, the slimes hopped toward her with surprising speed.

She blasted the first one with the dueling cane three times, then stepped backward as it recoiled, triggering another trap.

Vera dodged the incoming arrows again. The slimes didn’t. The arrows took care of three of them.

The sole slime she’d already bombarded wasn’t airborne, so it was low enough to the ground that it didn’t get hit. Instead, it just sort of slid across the ground toward Vera until she blasted it twice more. Then it vanished.

And the other slimes vanished along with it.

Not bad.

Vera wasn’t done, though.

She walked forward, avoiding the rest of the traps on that section, and came to rest next to the next one. “Move up,” she instructed me.

I complied quickly, but I moved slowly. Both because I was carrying someone else that was almost my size and because I really didn’t want to set off an arrow trap.

I made it to the next section without incident. “Great.” Vera hopped onto the barghensi platform. The barghensi charged.

Vera took a couple shots at the lead barghensi, then tried to step back down to where I was to avoid being barreled over by the still-charging monster.

That, it seemed, was not allowed.

The barrier popped into existence and she bounced off it, stumbling backward.

She managed to regain her footing, but the lead barghensi was almost on top of her.

I set the child down and dug into my pack, but I was far too slow to help. The barghensi opened its jaws as it closed in.

Vera jumped, pressing the other switch on the dueling cane and landing on the creature’s back. It was pretty impressive, but she fell right off. Not acombat attunement indeed.

The barghensi turned as she fell, rearing up to smash down on top of her. I did the only thing I could think of to help: I threw the candle from my bag at the tile closest to them. It wasn’t very heavy, but I hoped...

The trap triggered.

Vera, still on the floor, was still too low for the arrows to hit her. The barghensi, standing tall, was not so lucky.

In seconds, the first barghensi was riddled with arrows. It fell backward rather than forward and stilled as it struck the ground.

The second barghensi, however, was unharmed.

Vera rolled as it approached, avoiding its charge, and jammed the blade of the dueling cane into its side. The creature roared, turning toward her... and she fired a blast of mana into its open mouth.

The creature shuddered and collapsed, lifeless.

Vera pushed herself to her feet. “Thanks for the assist there. That’d have been a lot messier otherwise.”

My eyes were fixed on the second barghensi’s corpse, and my hand drifted up toward my throat. I wondered what it felt like to swallow a blast like that.

I shook it off. “Glad to help. Can you get back down now that those things are dead?”

She tested it. She could. “Guess we can probably move freely in and out of any section we’ve cleared.”

I pointed at the kid. “Should I put him back at the entrance and help you with that guy, then?” I indicated the bronze statue. “He looks pretty mean.”

It might have been my imagination, but I was pretty sure it turned its head toward us when I said that.

That was disconcerting.

“Not sure if that’s a good idea... you still don’t have an attunement. But I’m not going to refuse help if you insist.”

After seeing her almost get mauled back there? “I insist.”

She helped me move the kid back to the entrance, and then we stepped back to where the barghensi had fallen.

I turned my head to her. “You fought anything like that before?”

She shook her head. “No, but it’ll probably be tough to crack with physical attacks. Doubt the arrows will do much. Maybe the sword in there is special?”

I’d considered the same. Maybe the book knew more, but I was worried about taking the time to send a message and await a response. “Probably worth trying to get it out, at least. And if we can’t, I can just try to distract itwhile you hit it with the dueling cane?”

Vera nodded. “Sounds good. Lemme see...” She put her hand up against the pillar. “Not glass. It’s just thick ice. I think I can break it.”

I nodded, stepping out of the likely path of any water that the pillar might release. “Go right ahead, then.”

She stepped back, too, then fired a shot from the dueling cane into the center of a pillar. A crack spread across the surface where the mana had connected.

The statue moved. An echoing voice emerged from its mouth. “Defilers!” That didn’t sound good.

There was grinding sound, then a crack as the statue’s foot shattered the stone where it stepped.

Vera shot the pillar again, broadening the crack. The statue bent its knees and leapt, right at Vera.

“Resh!” Vera dodged out of the way as it descended, already beginning to swing its swords at her.

She ducked a swing aimed at her head, blasting the statue in the chest in response, but it barely budged from the shot.

The pillar was cracked, but the crystal still hadn’t broken. I didn’t have anything heavy to hit it with.

“Can you hit it again?” I shouted to Vera.

The statue turned toward me and hurled a sword in my direction. I just barely stepped out of the way in time.

Realizing that might be a viable weapon, I rushed for the thrown sword — only for it to vanish as soon as it hit the opposite wall.

“I’m a little busy!” Vera replied to my request, deflecting a sword with the dueling cane’s blade. She was better with the weapon than I’d expected, swiftly deflecting two cuts from the statue with perfect precision, but it was overwhelming her with the sheer number of angles it could attack from.

She stepped back, giving more ground, and barely avoided triggering another trap.

I rushed back toward them, but I still didn’t have a weapon. I’m going to regret this.

I rammed myself shoulder-first into the crack in the pillar.

The ice caved on impact. I was bathed in freezing water and tiny fragments of frost.

My dueling tunic protected me from the worst of it. None of the icy shards were pushed free with sufficient force to pierce through it.

But the water was cold, and it hit me with sufficient force to push me to the ground.

The statue turned toward me again, raising a hand, but Vera stepped in and slashed the arm with the dueling cane’s blade. The sword arm went limp, a visible gash where the mana-charged blade had cut deep into it.

That bought me a moment before it threw another sword at me with adifferent arm.

I didn’t have time to dodge.

Instead, I raised the still-sheathed sword, which had flowed out of the water right next to me, and deflected the thrown blade out of the way.

“Nice!” Vera shouted.

I grinned, standing and drawing the weapon. It looked like a rusted piece of junk.

That, I considered, is just what happens when I rely on hoping for the best.

But, rusted junk or not, it was a weapon. I ran the statue anyway.

The statue didn’t deign to give me its attention this time. Vera had been forced all the way to the back wall and she blasted it with mana in between parries.

I hit the statue in the back. There was a loud clang and my arm rattled from the impact, but it didn’t do any visible damage.

I did succeed in making it angry.

The statue turned to face me, lashing out at me with three different swords.

Fortunately, this was a game I knew how to play.

I stepped left, deflecting one of the blades into the other two, then kicked the statue in the knee.

As I expected, it wasn’t very well balanced.

The statue stumbled backward, and I lashed out, landing a glancing blow across its face.

Still no damage.

It responded with a slash across my abdomen. I stepped back, failing to avoid it entirely, but my dueling tunic repelled the glancing blow.

Then the blade of Vera’s dueling cane burst through the back of its head, and the statue collapsed to the floor.

I took a step back, breathing a sigh of relief. “Whew.”

Vera leaned back against the wall, breathing heavily. “You can say that again, kid. I haven’t had a fight like that in ages, and I don’t care to have one again.”

I nodded, sheathing the sword and lifting it to show it to her. “You mind if I hold onto this thing?”

“Nah,” she dragged the word out into an exhale, still trying to get herbreath back. “Think you earned it. Think you can carry the kid over here, though?”

I set the sword down. “Yeah, you handled a lot more of the fighting. Only fair.”

“Thanks.” She grinned at me. “You did pretty well yourself, though.”

I returned the grin, heading back to the other side of the room. I picked up the child gingerly — his condition seemed unchanged — and then carried him over to Vera, next to the door.

As I returned, the monsters shimmered and vanished as one, leaving tiny colorful crystals behind in their wake.

“Ooh, nice.” Vera picked up the largest crystal, the one that had been left behind by the statue, and shoved it into a pouch at her side. “May as well grab a few of these.”

“I don’t think we have that much time.” I still knelt and snatched a single crystal from the remains of a barghensi as I crossed the room. It was on my way, but I wasn’t willing to deviate from the safe path to collect any others. The monsters might have been dead, but I still was worried about triggering a harder to see trap.

Vera shrugged. “Suit yourself, kid.” She walked to the door. The crystal on it was clear, and she touched it with her free hand. The door opened, displaying a round room with a single pillar at the center. A stone one this time, not another ice pillar. A shame — in spite of being doused with freezing water, I could have lived with more pillars that had treasure inside them.

There were a few more obvious trap tiles on the floor and one particularly foreboding iron chain leading to something on the opposite side of the pillar.

I could see a large wooden door on the opposite side. “Looks like this isit.”

I recognized the double doors; they were the same design as the ones Ihad used to enter the tower. An exit.

I allowed myself to take a breath of relief as I inched toward the door. “Looks like you’re struggling there. Hand the kid back to me, yeah?”

I nodded gratefully, arriving next to Vera and handing the unconscious boy back into her arms.

I was sufficiently distracted with that motion that I just barely noticed when she pointed the dueling cane at my chest.

“Don’t move.”

My eyes narrowed.

I strongly considered trying to grab the cane from her hand. My vest could probably take one more shot, and people had a tendency to miss charging targets at short range.

But I’d never seen Vera miss.

I opened my hands and stretched them out to my sides, a gesture of surrender. “Why?”

“It’s nothing personal. I don’t know you, kid. But I’ve gotta make sure my friend here is safe.”

Vera paused, grimacing. “I’m taking this way out. You can find your own way.” Vera made a gesture with her head toward the door where we had entered the room. It was still there. “Maybe you can explain things to the visage.”

I gave her a look that was heavy with skepticism. “That sounds real plausible.”

“Sorry. Hate to do this, but I will fire if you follow me. This is bigger than you know.”

I shrugged. “Do what you’ve got to do.”

She nodded. “Don’t take this exit, even after I leave. I hope, for your sake, that we never meet again, Corin.”

Not likely.

When I get out of here, you’re going toward the top of my “figure this resh out” list.

Vera inched her way out of the room, the kid still slung over one shoulder, the dueling cane always pointing at me.

I considered rushing her right up until the point where she reached the pillar in the center of the next room and the door slammed shut.

Resh.

Only one thing to do now.

I looted the room.

Five more small crystals from the remaining destroyed monsters. They weren’t much, but they probably had some value. I picked the sheathed sword back up too. Rusted or not, it was better than nothing. Unfortunately, the sheath wasn’t built with a loop to attach to a belt, so I had to carry it by hand for the moment.

If Vera knew that the way she’d gone was an exit, can I just wait a bit longer and follow her?I knew that different exits led to different locations — was she going to be lying in wait for me out there? Did she have contacts outside the tower that would cover her retreat?The latter was slightly more likely, but I didn’t think either of them was going to happen.

I still didn’t take the exit, though. I had unfinished business.

I found a clear spot near the exit door and unslung my backpack, finding the book.

As I flipped open the pages, the room trembled. I dropped the book as the floor beneath me shifted, but I managed to maintain my footing.

After a few more seconds, the shaking stopped, and I picked up the book. Fortunately, nothing had fallen from the ceiling, but I could see cracks in the walls.

Was that an earthquake?No, ordinary earthquakes don’t happen here. That was something moving — something big.

...can the god serpent move outside of that room?I felt a momentary surge of terror, clenching my hands into fists as I pictured the god beast smashing through one of the nearby walls. But quivering wasn’t going to get me anywhere.

And it certainly wasn’t going to get Tristan the help he needed.

I took a deep breath, unclenched my fists, and picked up the book. I wasn’t done here.

I found the last line I had written, and I found the reply.

I will try. It is not my way, but I will try.

I frowned, uncertain, and lifted the quill to the page. I noted the distinct lack of a description for this room. Was the entity still watching me?Are you there?Seconds passed. No reply.

I lifted my head from the book, frowning, to find that I was no longer alone.

A hooded robe floated in front of me, with a pattern of white stars sewn into the blue cloth. The sleeves were outstretched, giving the impression of arms within, but there were no arms. No face was visible within the hood; just empty air.

“You have made things very difficult for me, Corin.”

I wasn’t sure if the voice was coming from within the cloak or inside my head. It seemed to come from everywhere at once.

But I was pretty sure I knew who I was talking to.

“Sorry about that.” I put the book and quill away. “Mysterious book entity, I take it?”

“In  a  manner  of  speaking.  This  is  not  my  true  form,  merely  amanifestation of convenience. There is no time for deeper discussion. Come.” I stood, ready to draw the sword, but holding it downward in a non-threatening position.

The hooded figure moved to a wall toward the middle of the room. I followed, avoiding the traps on the floor.

“Press here.”

I searched the wall, finding a small tile that stood out from the rest of the stone. A switch.

Of course, most of the switches in the room triggered traps. I really didn’t like this.

I pressed the switch.

I heard a click, followed by a grinding noise. A door-sized section of the wall slid into the floor.

I nodded to the hooded figure. “Thanks.”

“Do not thank me. This favor will cost us both.”

Well, that was ominous.

The room ahead was circular, similar to the one with the pillar. Instead of a pillar at the center, however, it had a basin filled with clear blue. There were exit doors on the opposite side of the room.

“Enter the room.”

I stepped in, glancing around cautiously. The robes floated in beside me. “This is a Room of Attunement.”

I felt my heart pound in my chest.

“Drink from the water to be anointed and complete your test.”

I didn’t hesitate. This was one of my two goals for entering the tower, and I had already made as much progress as I could have hoped for on finding Tristan.

Maybe this would give me the strength to do more.

I laid my sword down next to the basin and dipped my hands into the water. It was cool, almost freezing, as I brought it to my lips and drank.

My mind went blank.

I saw only blackness at first, but I felt no panic, only calm.

A woman manifested slowly in front of me. She glowed with a soft blue light. It was a cold light, colder than the water that flowed within me now, and it chilled me to my core.

Her wings were brilliant white, reminding me of the soft glow on the blade of the sword that Keras wielded.

Her expression was full of sadness as she reached for me, brushing her fingers across my forehead.

“Awaken.”

I was back in the chamber. My forehead felt cold, the touch of her fingertips still lingering on my skin.

I had no doubt as to what I had seen, what I had experienced. I was attuned.

The robed figure remained next to me. It leaned down, lifting the sheathed sword in an invisible grip.

I blinked, taking a step back.

It paused. “I am not going to strike you. I am merely retrieving a tool.” The cloaked figure unsheathed the rusted sword with an invisible hand,then thrust it into the pool of water. The entire blade and hilt sunk in, deeper than should have been possible from the visible fluid. When the cloaked figure pulled its hand out, the weapon had transformed. It was an elegant saber, a blue gem shimmering in the pommel, the handguard a weave of silvery vines.

The cloaked figure turned the sword to the side, offering it in two invisible hands. I accepted it with a mixture of confusion and awe, then re- sheathed it.

I felt an aura of frost emanate from the weapon as I took it in my hands, but it was a soothing cold. The chill fought back the pain in my right hand from the overuse of my cane.

“Thank you,” I breathed.

“It is a meager gift, but the best I can prepare with limited time. You will need far more than this to survive the days to come.”

“Because I opposed Katashi?” I might have expected as much.

The creature’s hood twisted, giving the impression of an attempt to shake a head that wasn’t there. “Because of what you have seen. You are one of several who have been pulled into a conflict with the potential for vast devastation. Seek the woman called Lyras Orden. Tell her that the Voice of the Tower must speak with her. You may tell her what you have seen, but speak to no one else of the prisoners. That will be the first of your tasks to repay what you owe.”

I nodded. “I take it you’re this Voice?”

“Yes. I know you wish for more information, but I must leave. A battle still rages and even moments may make a difference.”

I thought of Keras and Katashi. Was this Voice going to go help one of them?I really wanted to know more, but I didn’t know enough to question the Voice’s decision, and I believed that moments might be relevant.

“One last question. My brother entered this tower and never returned. His name is Tristan. Do you know where I can find him?”

The Voice hovered in silence for a moment. The hood shifted downward just enough for me to notice. “I am sorry. Thousands come and go each year. I cannot help you.”

Another chance lost.

The tower shook, jarring me out of my thoughts. “I understand. Thank you again for everything.”

The hooded robe vanished. I heard a voice in the air as it disappeared. “Leave quickly, while you still can.”

I stared for a moment at where it had been.

Quickly was somewhat ambiguous, at least. I could take a few minutes.

I knew that people were supposed to lose some of their memories of the tower when they left. I also knew they kept what they had found inside.

I had a book and a quill. I hoped the Voice wouldn’t be too irritated if I used them for a more conventional purpose.

The tower shook as I wrote the most important notes I could think of.

Found prisoners and freed them. Tristan was not among them. One of them, Vera, betrayed me and fled with an unconscious child. Not sure why.

Another, Keras, is currently fighting with the Visage of Valor. Yes, seriously. He is doing surprisingly well, but from the shaking in the tower, I don’t know how long he’ll last.

This book is connected to an entity called the Voice of the Tower. The Voice has instructed me to find Lyras Orden and tell her to talk to him. It? Anyway, that’s a thing I need to do. Also, I shouldn’t tell others about the prisoners.

Katashi may want to kill me because of what I know and/or because I helped Keras a little. This could prove inconvenient.

The Voice doesn’t know where Tristan is, but if there are prisoners here, there’s hope. It’s much more likely the goddess will return him if he’s still alive.

I finished taking my notes. I’d originally planned to record everything I’d seen in the tower, but the shaking was getting worse. I saw cracks forming in the walls of my room. The Voice didn’t reply to my writing. Presumably, it was busy.

More shaking. Tiny pieces of masonry fell from the ceiling. Was there anything else I needed to do before I left the tower?I looked at the font where I’d gained my attunement, where the Voice had procured a magic weapon by trading in a terrible one. I really, really wanted to pour everything from my backpack in there. Somehow I doubted thegoddess would appreciate that, though.

I settled for emptying out my flask of water on the floor of the room and dipping it into the pool. I filled it to the brim.

Would the goddess be offended by such a small thing? I hoped not.

The room shook again, a fist-sized chunk of stone falling from above and landing inches from where I stood.

I’m going to hope that was a coincidence. Either way, it’s time to go.

I stoppered the water flask, put it in my bag, and moved with purpose out the tower doors.

***I was out of the tower.

I took a minute to just close my eyes and breathe. I survived.

It felt good to be alive. It felt even better to finally have some tangible progress toward getting Tristan back.

It was going to be a long journey, but I’d finally taken a step closer to reuniting my family.

Standing here isn’t going to get you any closer, though.

I opened my eyes.

The sky was dark overhead, and I could see clouds gathering. Fortunately, I didn’t have to worry about rain on the way home. The environmental shield that covered the city was barely visible from my vantage point, but I could see the telltale shimmer a few hundred feet up.

I knew what rain and snow were intellectually, but I’d never felt them. Maybe I’d get a chance someday. For the moment, I had more important things to concentrate on.

There were no guards next to my particular exit, which was a bit of a surprise. I knew I’d probably taken a non-standard route through the tower, but I still expected to be escorted by guards to a nearby celebration area as soon as I finished. That was standard procedure, as I understood it.

I could see the tall celebration tents in the distance and a couple people gradually approaching them.

I took another minute, gathering my thoughts and checking the contents of my pack. At a glance, everything was still there. I still had the sword with me, too.

The book’s writing remained intact. Good.

It took me a moment to realize that I remembered writing in the book, and I knew why I was checking it.

My memories hadn’t been erased. Not yet, at least.

Was it because I had taken a non-standard exit? Or perhaps because theVoice had helped me somehow? I wasn’t sure. And I certainly wasn’t going to tell anyone. Not yet, at least.

I took a moment to draw a crude map of the rooms I’d explored in the tower. Just boxes with a word in each to show what they represented. I’d write more about them later if I could, but I didn’t think the map would help me much for a couple reasons.

First, the tower was always changing. Even if I walked in the same door it was likely I’d end up in a completely different place. The connections between rooms would change, too.

Second, and more importantly, I couldn’t go back in through the same gate. The Gate of Judgment could be used precisely once per person. Next time I entered the tower, I’d have to use one of the other, far more dangerous entrances. The ones designed for climbers who were intent on reaching the top of the tower.

If I wanted to survive going into the deadlier parts of the tower, I’d need to learn how to master my attunement. Even Vera, who had an attunement that wasn’t built for combat, had proven that she was vastly more capable than I was. I couldn’t have possibly survived that spire guardian room without her— and that was just a single room on the first floor.

Now that I’d completed my Judgment, my highest priority was to train. To study. To get stronger.

And when I was ready, I’d start climbing to the top to save my brother.

I decided that I’d eventually try to write up my notes on the tower rooms and publish them for future tower entrants. I wanted to do anything I could to try to prevent others from failing their Judgments.

But for the moment, I had more far more pressing concerns.

I’d seen a lot of flashy magic over the years. My father and mother were both expert combatants, and I’d seen both of them absolutely demolish people in structured combat tournaments.

But neither they, nor anyone I’d ever met, had a fraction of the power that Katashi did. Visages could — and had — leveled cities. It was very likely that what I’d seen in his battle with Keras was just a fraction of his power, probably to prevent collateral damage.

If I’d just made him angry, I was in very serious trouble.

I headed toward the celebration tent, but I didn’t feel much like celebrating.

There were two Soaring Wing guards at the entrance to the tent. They gave me cautious looks as I approached.

One of them, a woman with a blue attunement mark glowing softly on her right hand, gave me a hard look. “Where’d you come from?”

I pointed at the exit where I’d emerged.

“Huh. Haven’t seen anyone come out that gate in years.” She narrowed her eyes, and then waved her rune-marked hand over my forehead. Looking at her partner, she said, “It’s real. He’s attuned.”

The other guard nodded, turned toward me and gave me a friendly slap on the shoulder. I winced — I wasn’t much for physical contact — but I tried to give him as pleasant of a smile as I could manage.

“Congratulations, kid. You should go get yourself a drink! If your test was anything like mine, you probably need one. And don’t let anyone hassle you about your attunement.”

What’s that supposed to mean?It occurred to me that I hadn’t actually checked which attunement I’d picked up. I didn’t exactly have a mirror.

“Uh, thanks.” I turned my head from one guard to the other. “Can I go in?”

“Oh, ‘course you can. Gotta make sure you fill out your papers before you leave, too. That’s in the back.” The woman gestured toward the back of the tent, where I could see some tables stacked with paperwork. Bored looking adults were manning the tables, giving instructions to the teens my own age sitting or standing nearby.

In the middle of the tent, though, people were celebrating. Newly-attuned teenagers were dancing, carousing, and some looked to be having their first taste of alcohol.

I stepped in, looking around.

“Congratulations! Need a drink?” An older teenager holding a tray of wine glasses lifted it in my direction, but I shook my head.

“Not much of a drinker.” Belatedly, I added, “But thanks.” The teenager nodded. “Suit yourself!”

I continued to make my way in, bypassing the celebrants and heading to the back tables. Some of the adults turned toward me. One of them pointed, and another stood and approached me.

She was a heavy-set woman, maybe in her thirties or forties, beaming a bright grin at me. I did my best to smile in return, but my best probably wasn’t very good.

“Hello, and congratulations! I see you just finished your attunement. You’re welcome to join the celebrants for a bit before you sign your papers, if you’d like.”

I shook my head. “Thank you, but I’d rather get this over with.”

Her smile diminished by a fraction, but she maintained a cheerful tone. “Of course, of course. I’m Professor Edlyn. From the look of that mark, I’llprobably be seeing you in my classes in a few weeks.”

I absently brushed my fingers against my forehead. “Oh, uh, great. I’m Corin Cadence. I haven’t actually seen my attunement yet.”

I took a glance at her own attunement — the one she had visible, anyway. I did notice she was wearing a glove on her right hand, and of course her clothing could have covered other marks as well.

It was a Shaper mark, like my father’s, but less complex. I’d seen several variations on each attunement mark, but they always had a core symbol at the center that looked the same. I didn’t know enough about how attunements worked to understand the variations yet.

She raised an eyebrow. “Cadence? As in House Cadence?” I nodded silently.

“Oh dear. I — well, you should come have a seat, and we’ll get you sorted out.”

That wasn’t a good sign.

I followed her to a seat at one of the nearby tables, trying to ignore the looks that followed me from both newly-attuned and adults.

The professor slid a group of papers in front of me, but I didn’t look at them immediately. “What’s this all about?”

Professor Edlyn gestured at the papers. “Your enrollment paperwork for the Lorian Heights Academy of Arcane Arts. As you’re probably aware, all newly attuned are required by law to serve two years at the academy.”

I nodded. “Followed by two years of military service.”

“Largely correct, although those subsequent two years can also be spent in other approved government roles, such as tower expeditions. Only Lorian Heights can provide you with the education you will need to properly utilize your attunement.”

Of course, because it’s the only option available to me.

Every kingdom treated attuned differently. In Caelford, they had only a single year of mandatory university training, after which students were generally given apprenticeships. Their focus was on attunement-augmented manufacturing, developing both advanced military technology and everyday conveniences that were improved by attunements.

In the Edrian Empire, attuned were sent straight to the military, where they served for a minimum of six years. From my understanding, that duration was often extended, either at the behest of the attuned or by the will of the empire.

In Dalenos, attuned were sent to serve the church. Of course, the Dalen military also served the church — Dalenos was a theocracy — so many attuned still ended up with military-style training.

Valia had the best deal, as far as I was concerned. I only needed to sign away four years of my life, not all of them.

Of course, the nature of the attunement was also relevant, and I still didn’t know mine.

“Can I ask which attunement I have?” I made a little gesture, pointing at the mark on my forehead.

“Of course, dear. You have the Enchanter Attunement.”

I winced. If she noticed, she didn’t give any sign, she just continued talking.

“The Enchanter Attunement will allow you to create magical items and manipulate existing items. It’s very valuable for the development of new technology and providing useful tools to other attuned.”

But virtually useless on its own.

It was the diametric opposite of my family’s traditional attunement, the Shaper. One designed for overwhelming personal combat ability.

I spent the following hours nodding absently to the professor’s instructions while I signed away four years of my life, knowing that the mark on my forehead might have ruined many more.

***The hours I spent on the train ride home were a stream of nervousness and self-deprecation. I’d faced several colorful death options earlier in the day, but none of them were as terrifying as what awaited me at the end of the railroad.

Home.

Disembarking at the Hastings Valley Station, I opted to walk the remaining two miles with calculated slowness. I could have hired a carriage, but I hoped that a sufficient delay might allow me to arrive after others had already gone to sleep.

No such luck, of course.

Cadence Manor was a beautiful structure, three stories of pristine white wood and stone surrounded by three layers of gates — a high stone wall, a barrier of hedges, and an inner metallic fence. The innermost and outer gates were etched with runic wards with a broad variety of functions, and the house itself was similarly protected. There were no guards outside, but the houseitself could withstand a siege.

At the moment, Cadence Manor’s most remarkable characteristic was the man standing in front of the house’s open doors. Tall, athletic, and dressed in the long white coat with blue markings of House Cadence, he was the perfect image of a nobleman in his prime. His black hair was trimmed fashionably short, showing streaks of silver along the temples. His hands rested comfortably on a long cane that I knew contained a metallic blade.

My father. His gray eyes analyzed, scrutinized, and calculated as I approached. His position in front of the doors was deliberate. Everything he did was deliberate.

People liked to say that Magnus Cadence was the type of man to think five moves ahead of his opponent, tracing a dozen paths of undoing his enemies before they could lift a hand.

People were often wrong.

Magnus Cadence didn’t plan five moves ahead. He didn’t need to. He would never let an opponent make five moves.

I held my back high, brushing a lock of hair away from my forehead, revealing the glowing mark on the skin.

He’d made his opening move with his position, and now I’d made mine. We were about twenty feet apart when he acted again.

“So, you failed, then.”

Four simple words that changed the nature of the contest. This was no game of tactics, pushing pieces on a board.

He’d taken a lunge straight for the heart, just as definitively as if he he’d drawn the true steel in his hands.

It was a feint.

I shrugged a shoulder, trying to appear unaffected. “I’d call it more of an incremental victory.” A deflection, not a riposte. If I had attempted a counterstrike, he would have used my momentum against me.

He’d drawn blood with those words, but it was only a graze.

Father waved a hand at my forehead with a nonchalant gesture. “I’d hardly call wearing a coward’s mark any sort of victory, incremental or otherwise.”

A swipe at the knees, an attempt to catch me off balance. “Any mark is power, and I can earn more in time. Moreover, I learned some valuable information about the tower during my visit, which will serve to improve my ability to climb in the future.”

A successful evasion, followed by a press of blades, mine against his own. Father quirked an eyebrow, giving the slightest bit of ground. “How did you learn anything? Your memories of the Judgment should have faded bynow.”

I smiled, taking the opening. “I wrote notes while I was inside the tower, Father. A simple enough exercise, but effective. Moreover, I made contact with an entity tied to the tower itself — a potential information source.”

“I suppose you have some of my blood in you after all, then.” An unexpected concession on his part, giving ground. “Inadequate, unfortunately, to compensate for your failure to earn a combat attunement. You can come inside and meet your replacement.”

There is no fencing term I’m aware of for drawing a pistol and shooting your opponent in the face, but that was what it felt like when I heard his final words.

I’d overextended myself and he’d taken advantage of that, giving me a taste of victory just to crush me with overwhelming force.

He turned his back, striding into the house, leaving the familiar doors wide open.

I followed, trying to avoid fixating on the sense inadequacy he’d awakened in my mind. It was no use. The sense intensified as I saw who waited me inside.

Standing with her hands folded carefully in front of her was Sera Shard, my childhood companion. She stood in the center of the entry chamber, her bright House Cadence uniform illuminated by the gas lamps on the sides of the chamber.

Sera, the daughter of one of my mother’s retainers, had been born a scant handful of days after I had. We had been raised together with the understanding that she would be my personal retainer. Not a servant — Sera was trained to be my bodyguard, my seneschal, and my closest confidant. My childhood was filled with memories of countless hours spent with her and Tristan, days filled with joy.

I’d been raised with numerous stories about the bonds of loyalty between a noble and their retainers. I’d seen them in practice between my mother and Sera’s mother. They were always together, closer than any friends I’d ever known.

When the tower took Tristan from me, my mother took Sera. Mother had taken her entire staff when she left, and of course Sera had left with her own mother.

I was no child now, and seeing my father approach Sera, I processed things I had not as a ten-year-old. A similarity in the grayness of their eyes, a similar wave in her black hair to one in my own.

The distinct absence of a father in her childhood.

I anticipated Father’s next move, but it was irrelevant.

“Corin, I take it you remember the young Miss Shard.” He stood to her right side, smiling magnanimously as he gestured toward her. He didn’t wait for me to reply. “Given Tristan’s continued absence, and your failure to secure a combat attunement, I’ve decided to legitimize her. Unlike you, Corin, she’s earned a real attunement. She’s a Summoner.”

A Summoner? That’s impressive. They’re rare... and extremely effective.

I did the only thing I could, since replying directly to him would only invite more attacks. I closed the door behind me, approached to an acceptable distance, and bowed at the waist toward Sera. “Congratulations on earning a Summoner Attunement, Sera. It’s good to see you. It’s been too long.”

She didn’t return the bow. Instead, she smirked and spoke. “Thank you, Corin. Or perhaps ‘brother’ would be a better term, now?” Shining eyes flickered with mischief.

Father turned his gaze toward Sera. “I wouldn’t get ahead of yourself, dear. I’ve legitimized you as a member of House Cadence, but I have not declared myself to be your father. Not yet. That is something you will need to earn.”

If she was daunted by that, she showed no sign. “Of course, Father. I will endeavor to be the very best example of what this house has to offer.”

Goddess, I’d forgotten how good she was at pretentious resh. I couldn’t have come up with something that haughty with a calculated effort.

Father set a hand on the top of her head. “I expect nothing less.” It was a small gesture of affection; just enough to show what he never gave to me.

I stretched, attempting to appear unaffected. “Excellent, maybe we can begin by sharing stories about our experiences in the tower.”

Stories which she presumably wouldn’t have, since normally people had their memories erased. It was a cheap shot.

She turned her head to me, still smiling. “Oh, I’m sure we’ll have plenty of time for that at the university. You look exhausted, Corin. You must have had a difficult time of things. Is that a burn mark on your tunic?”

I shrugged. If she thought that taking a hit implied weakness on my part, I could use that. “Oh, it’s nothing. Just a blast from a dueling cane in one of my first battles.”

Father turned, scratching his chin. “Which you fled, I take it?”

I scoffed, which seemed to catch them both off guard. “Uh, no, not a chance. I didn’t run from any monsters.”

Mostly true. I only fled from people. And beings of godlike power. Okay, and the cat-rabbit thing. So adorable.

Father’s eyes narrowed, showing a bit of legitimate contemplation. Had I given him a hint of doubt? “You fought monsters, and yet you have a non-combat attunement? I find that somewhat difficult to believe.” Good.

I shrugged the backpack off my shoulders, opening the back and reaching in. I retrieved one of the larger crystals that had been left behind when Vera destroyed the barghensi. It was common knowledge that monsters in the tower left crystals behind when killed; they were a form of stable mana, and could be used in some spells and enchantments. Some people believed that they were the crystallized souls of the monsters.

I tossed the crystal to him, and he caught it deftly.

A slight frown developed as he turned the crystal over in his hands. “Curious.” He raised his head toward me.

I showed him a handful of other crystals. “If you think that’s impressive, you should see the sword.” I tapped the hilt of the weapon at my hip.

Father didn’t take the bait. Instead, he turned to Sera and handed her the crystal. “You’ll need to retrieve something more impressive than this on your next trip in the tower.”

She nodded curtly.

I set my backpack on the ground, folding my arms.

Apparently, I was setting the low, low bar for being considered a child of Magnus Cadence.

Father probably expected me to fight back, to compete, to try to prove myself... and for Sera to have to try harder to measure up to that.

He’d never understood.

His approval had stopped being important to me the moment he’d written his elder son off as dead.

“Well, this is all very exciting.” I tried to sound as unenthusiastic as possible. “But, as you’ve both made it clear you understand, I’m an exhausted coward who wants nothing but luxury, so I’m off to bathe and bed.”

I gave Sera one last look as I walked past her. Her expression had shifted from playful to contemplative. I gave her an exaggerated wink.

I wasn’t going to compete with her for Father’s approval, but that didn’t mean I couldn’t find a way to make this into entertainment of my own.

