CHAPTER VI — PRECAUTIONS

Wyddsday, my final day to prepare before classes started, hit me faster than expected. As I’d suspected, all my basic school books were unavailable in the library, so I’d spent some time browsing local shops to find the cheapest used copies that I could. Every coin I saved was one more I could put toward enchanting supplies.

I’d looked into those, too, but I didn’t have enough context to know what I’d actually need to buy. Mana crystals came in dozens of elemental varieties and several different sizes.

I checked the magic book for replies several times, but the Voice never wrote anything further. I concluded that either it was too busy or that it could only communicate through the book while it was in the tower. I planned to continue checking periodically anyway. It wouldn’t hurt.

I bought some basic food, easy to store food for my room as well. It’d be important if I needed to skip going to the dining hall for any reason. I kept to the cheap stuff, wanting to save as much money as possible.

With all those basic preparations in place, I spent most of my time reading my introductory books. Most of the students seemed to want to use their last days of freedom to socialize, but I was more interested in getting as much of an advantage as possible.

My final errand was one the most interesting, and one I’d been simultaneously excited and terrified about. It was time to visit Professor Orden and talk about what I’d seen in the tests.

I found a long line of students in front of me when I reached her office.

Of course there’s a line. She’s the supervisor for one of the classes. I’m sure a lot of the students are meeting with their supervisors for advice or any way to get an early edge.

I was, of course, the only Enchanter in line for the class that was meantfor Diviners and Shadows.

Jin was at the front of the line. He saw me, quirked an eyebrow, and disappeared into the professor’s room.

As the students in line conversed with each other, I considered Jin. His black shirt had a high collar, and he wore gloves on both hands — an irregularity that was most likely designed to conceal his attunement.

He was in the Phoenix Division dorms, which implied that he was an Enchanter or a Mender. Of course, it was also possible he had a foreign attunement that was similar to ours.

Either way, he probably wouldn’t be getting training from Professor Orden. She was in charge of Diviners and Shadows, which had little similarity to the attunements used by the Phoenix Division.

If he was a Spider with a Diviner or a Shadow Attunement, though, he’d have a great reason to visit her for training or advice.

Asking people if they were members of House Spider was a great way to imply he was trying to find them, and thus not a member of House Spider himself. But it was such an obvious tactic for a Spider to use that many would suspect him of being one, just for doing it.

Which implied that he was either legitimately trying to gather information or deliberately trying to get people to question if he was a Spider or not.

Goddess, I wished I had thought to do it first. It sounded terribly entertaining.

Maybe I could still get in on the idea later.

He exited the room a few minutes later, nodding to me with a smirk as he passed by. I continued to wait as patiently as I could as other students took their turns, my mind traversing several threads as I waited.

It was at least an hour before I finally made it inside the door.

Professor Orden sat behind a long wooden desk, hands folded neatly in front of her, staring directly at me as I entered. Her crisp black suit and neutral expression were a stark contrast to the piles of everything imaginable that occupied nearly every usable space in the room.

I couldn’t see how she’d made it behind the desk without climbing over it. There were file cabinets blocking the paths on both sides of the desk, and the walls were lined with bookshelves. While there were some books, the shelves primarily seemed to carry miscellaneous trinkets. Bits of metal, tiny crystals, a crystalline feather, and what looked like a blackened human skull were sprawled haphazardly across them. A collection of masks occupied the little empty space on the back wall.

“Close the door behind you.” She gestured with one hand, and I complied.

When I looked back, she’d returned to her neutral position, hands folded in front of her. “You’re not in my class. What brings you here, Cadence?”

I frowned. I knew her position connected her to a class of people that gathered information, but I hadn’t expected her to know me.

It took me another moment to realize that she didn’t need to. I was wearing my house’s symbol on my glove, like I always did, and I had an attunement glowing on my forehead that put me in a different class. She was probably just being observant and deliberately trying to disarm me.

I could appreciate that sort of thing, but I wasn’t in the mood for theatrics.

I was nervous enough already.

“I have a message for you, but my understanding is that it’s something that shouldn’t be overheard. Is this a good place and time, or...?”

She waved a hand and stood up with deliberate effort. “Just wait for a moment.”

Professor Orden traced a pattern on the wall behind her with a single finger, leaving a gleaming trail where her finger made contact.

She’s drawing runes. I didn’t recognize the specific shapes, but she drew several of them.

She turned around, folding her arms. “This had better be worth my effort.” “It’s secure now?”

She nodded in confirmation. “I took the basic precautions. Out with it.”

I glanced at the runes, then back to her. “The Voice of the Tower would like to speak to you.”

She let out a string of creative expletives, the kind and variety that you’re definitely not supposed to say in front of children.

“I’m pretty sure that’s anatomically impossible,” I replied.

“Quiet. I need to think.” She shut her eyes, folding her arms again.

Is this really that big of a problem? I haven’t even told her the details yet.

It was several moments before Professor Orden reopened her eyes, taking a deep breath. “I spoke too soon. This office is secure, but not secure enough for this conversation. I will contact you again at a later time. If you have not already been informed, you are most likely in significant danger. Take precautions. Do not speak to anyone else of this.”

I held up my hands in a warding gesture. “Significant danger? Can you, uh, elaborate about that please?”

Orden tightened her lips. “Just the fact that you know about the existence of the Voice means you probably attracted the attention of one or more of the visages. The kind of attention that usually results in people disappearing. So, as I said, take precautions.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Precautions? Against a visage?”

“Goddess above, boy, were you never briefed on this? Never mind. A visage isn’t going to be dropping out of the sky to annihilate you directly. Their agents are the ones you need to worry about. I can’t give you details here. Wherever you’re sleeping, ward it. Be thorough. Set up means for contacting help rapidly. Keep a weapon near you at all times. If you’re attacked directly, retreat to a populated area and make as much noise as possible.”

“By ward it, you mean—”

The professor held up a hand to stop me. “Don’t tell anyone about the details of your precautions, including me.” Her lips pursed, and she turned to the book case on her right, retrieving a key from the clutter. She tapped three times on a drawer in her desk, whispered something, and then turned the key in the lock. Once the drawer was open, she whispered again and reached inside.

There was an intricately carved chest inside the drawer, as well as a small pouch. The box immediately caught my eye. The runes on it resembled the ones on the entrance doors to the Serpent Spire, but I’d never seen similar styles on human-made equipment.

She removed the pouch and closed the drawer. “You’d better have good enough information to make this worth my trouble, Cadence.”

I lifted the bag. It didn’t have much heft to it, but there were at least a few coins inside. “Thank you.”

“You can thank me by leaving quickly, pretending this conversation never happened, and not dying until we have an opportunity to discuss things further.”

Goddess, what did I get myself into? “What if someone asks why I was here?”

“You had a message to deliver from my sister, Caela. It was a physical letter. You didn’t read it. I thanked you, paid you a courier fee, and sent you on your way.”

“Where would I have met this sister?”

“No one is going to ask you that.” She sighed. “But you’re right to ask. Say she was at the school’s recruitment tent outside the tower. No one will think to check. Now go.”

Her tone didn’t brook any argument. She sat back down, moving to her default position, waiting for the next student. I left the room, walking hurriedly back to my dorm.

***The first thing I did when I got back to my room was try to write down the runes that I’d seen on the box in her drawer. I’d only had a few moments tolook at them, but I thought I had a pretty good recollection of what some of them looked like.

My basic rune book was no help, but Advanced Artifice had some clues.

The central rune was something called a “containment” rune, and it was used for storing things inside a container that were larger than the container itself. I’d heard of things like that before — bags that were used to store large numbers of items, for example. There were diagrams for the runes for making exactly that type of bag, but while the central rune matched that design, nothing else did.

I came close to identifying one of the other runes, the one just to the left of center. It looked similar to a rune designed for governing range for teleportation spells, but the bottom section was drawn differently.

The one on the far right? I was pretty sure I’d either remembered it wrong or it was just a bunch of squiggles someone had made while they were bored.

I still didn’t know enough to understand what the whole thing was supposed to do, but I could tell this kind of thing was powerful. The kinds of runes I saw in the introductory runes book had “mana values” in the single digits. The most similar teleportation range rune I could find was classified at Citrine-level and required air mana and transference mana in the hundreds.

There were a number of other runes on the box that I couldn’t rememberas well, and ones I couldn’t make out at all from my angle.

I really wanted one. Maybe I could convince her to let me take a look at it in more detail later?I also wanted to know why she’d whispered before opening the drawer.

Was she unlocking the drawer, or maybe disabling a trap?I sighed. It didn’t matter. The box, as interesting as it was, wasn’t what I had to work with.

She’d told me to take precautions, so that was the next thing on my agenda. What could I do with the resources I had on hand? I had my handful of crystals, a few silver sigils and some bronze ones, and whatever she’d put in that pouch.

I checked the bag, fully expecting it to contain more wealth than I’d seen in my entire life. It didn’t. Just a half dozen extra silver sigils... and, more interestingly, a single finger-sized transparent crystal.

I’d have to figure out how to identify crystals at a glance at some point.

In the meantime, I packed the crystal away with my others and flipped open the basic runes book. I managed to locate a couple of the runes I’d seen the professor drawing on the wall, and I wondered how she’d been doing it without crystals in hand. Was she powering the runes herself? If so, how many attunements did she have?The one on the left was “silence”, a simple rune for blocking noise. The other one was “blindness”, which blocked vision. Drawing them on walls wouldn’t do anything on its own, though.

Some of her runes must have been to tie the runes to the wall as an area of effect, then to focus them outward, preventing people outside from seeing or hearing what was within. Predictably, I couldn’t find those runes in the basic book, even though they were the most important.

And I still didn’t have the materials to power any of those runes, even if I knew them.

Maybe I was thinking too much in terms of runes. I still hadn’t even tried to make one yet, so it was probably a little too soon to be formulating my defense plan around them. There were simpler ways to protect myself, at least until I’d taken a few days of classes and made some test runes.

It didn’t take me long to purchase a few mundane supplies at a nearby store. I also checked the school rules for modifying the interior of the room — I could make some basic alterations as long as I fixed them before I left.

Good.

Nailing my door shut at night wasn’t exactly elegant, but it was a pretty effective deterrent. Much more than a simple lock, which undoubtedly any number of spells — or even mundane tricks — could remove. It would be pretty tough to dislodge a board nailed to the wall without anyone noticing.

Eventually, I’d get a silence rune so that people didn’t hear me nailing a board over my door every night.

I considered setting traps, but in a small enclosed space I doubted I’d be able to make them any more of a threat to an intruder than they were to me.

My room only had one entrance, the door. That was fortunate. I didn’t know how I’d handle anything as vulnerable as a window.

I also bought chalk. I’d place a small chip in the hinge of the door when I was about to leave. If I came back and found it crushed, it would imply that someone had been in my room while I’d been gone.

With some effort, I switched around the configuration of my room, putting my bed on the opposite side. If someone was going to blast straight in from the doorway, I’d be out of their line of attack.

My preparations felt woefully insufficient to handle any real threat, but most of the other options I considered were either too expensive (lining the walls with anti-magic materials), logistically infeasible (sleep somewhere other than my dorm room), or outside of my current capabilities (warding the walls).

I didn’t sleep much that night, but I felt some comfort from the sword cradled in my arms and the aura of frost seeping through the scabbard and provided a reassuring chill.

***Tashday, the first day of classes.

I hadn’t been murdered in the middle of the night. Success!I didn’t feel that successful, though. I felt exhausted, cranky, and a little bit numb. As it turns out, sleeping with a frost-enchanted sword in your arms has some disadvantages.

For the future, I’d remember to sleep with my dueling cane nearby instead of my sword.

I could already hear the sounds of the parade students heading their way toward the mess hall, trying to get in a meal before classes started. As much as it dismayed me to come into the presence of people again, my stomach was feeling neglected, so I decided to join them.

I winced at the damage to the wood as I unhooked my board from the doorway. There was no doubting that the board would be an effective delay, but it was going to do an unsustainable amount of damage if I had to keep it up for long. I’d have to look into getting a chain to replace it eventually. Possibly several chains. Ideally enchanted ones.

With that done, I realized I still wasn’t in my school uniform, and I’d been told it was mandatory for classes. Like all of the school uniforms, mine was primarily white, but it was accented with copper buttons and crimson epaulets to signify that I was a part of Phoenix Division. Red wasn’t really my color, but the uniform fit me better than I’d expected, and I had to admit that the floor-length overcoat was pretty nice.

I pinned on the shield sigil, and I immediately felt more like I was really attuned. I had a magical shield. I wondered how much it had to cost to provide every student with one of these. Did all our actual soldiers get them, too?Putting the pin on also made me feel a good deal safer. I had no illusions that it would help me if Katashi came for me directly, but a protective barrier could help if someone else tried to get rid of me.

I resolved to wear the pin at all times. Even when I was sleeping.

Especially when I was sleeping.

I belted on my sword — which I really needed to name at some point, all the best magic swords had names — and headed to the mess hall.

The scents hit me almost as soon as the building was in sight. I’d expected the dining hall food to be bland and uninspired, but the smell that filled the air were thick sauces and heavy spices. Some kind of curry, maybe? I loved curry, but I hadn’t had it since a family vacation to Dalenos in my youth. It wasn’t common in traditional Valian cuisine.

The line was less inspiring than the smell. It took me at least half an hour of waiting in the throng of students to get inside the door. I’d say it added to the anticipation, but I still would have preferred instant gratification.

I spotted a couple familiar faces amongst the students in the line. Patrick Wayland, Lisa Stone, and a few others that I’d gone to school with as a child. No doubt there were many others among my former classmates in the line who were too different in appearance for me to recognize. My three years of “private tutoring” had scraped my relationships down to the bone.

I didn’t resent my father for pulling me out of school. I understood his reasoning, his lack of trust for the system that had failed to adequately train my brother for his contest against the games of the goddess. I did resent his adamant refusal to allow me to visit with my friends. Letters helped for a time, but within a year, most of my friendships had atrophied from disuse.

When I neared the front of the line, I saw a list of meal options. I could pick from curried chicken, salmon, and some kind of unfamiliar pastry called a “cinnagar cake”. I picked the chicken and sides of seasoned potato slices and a mixture of vegetables.

It was a disconcertingly good meal. I grew suspicious. Were we being lulled into thinking we’d get excellent food so that it could be taken away at a later time?Or maybe it was just the fact that this school was attended by those who had been wealthy enough to take an attunement test, and thus they had high standards. I wasn’t sure.

For the moment, at least, I wasn’t going to complain.

After a significant amount of searching, I managed to find an empty table to sit alone. I had a few minutes of precious silence, sipping the apple juice I’d chosen for a beverage and reading a book, before Sera manifested in front of me.

I didn’t even have a chance to groan before she’d put down her plate and sat down. It was too early for me to interact with the living, and in spite of my general fondness for Sera, she still was another entity and thus a toll on my exhausted mind.

“Corin.” She gave me a catlike grin, slicing into her own chosen dish with relish. “Good morning, brother.”

I closed my book, looking up to pin her eyes with mine. They were lighter than my own, more like my father’s.

“Good morning, my dear sister.” If my reply fazed her in any respect, she didn’t show it.

Affectionate terminology gamble: unsuccessful.

We continued our staring contest until I very deliberately smiled, speared a potato with my fork, and turned to bite it. “Mm. The food here is shockingly delicious. Think it’s a trap?”

“You’ve always been so suspicious of everything.” She raised her own fork, then speared one of my potatoes with it. My eyes flared in indignation, but she paid them no heed. “Even when we were children. Sometimes, you know, a potato is just a potato.”

I nodded. “Except that one. That’s the one I laced with a deadly toxin. I meant to serve it to one of my enemies later, but alas...”

She reached up, putting a hand over her chest. “I fear I can feel my heart’s last rapid thrums even now.” She contorted her lips. “Or, wait, they’d probably be slower, not faster, wouldn’t they? Alas, I feel the last glacial pulses of my frozen—”

“Both glacial and frozen? Seems a little excessive.”

“Not when your heart is as cold as mine. Frigid with the frost of betrayal, by my own, dear, darling, brother. Who is also my sibling.”

I stabbed another potato. “On second thought, I think this was the poisoned one. Goddess, thanks for everything.” I popped it into my mouth. “Mm, delicious. Tastes like eternal suffering.”

She raised an eyebrow. “I didn’t think you were a believer in the Punishments.”

“Oh, I’m not, but it was too good of a line for me not to say it.”

“That’s your idea of a good line? Please, Corin. I know you haven’t been to a school in years—”

“That’s low, ‘sister’—”

“—but even you should have higher standards for dramatic monologues.

You never know when you might need one.”

I paused, cutting into my chicken. “Okay, that last part actually managed to sound vaguely ominous. I’ll give you credit for that.”

She gave a mocking bow over the table. “Thank you. It feels so good to be appreciated on occasion.”

“But I’m confident you had more of a reason to be here than just to engage me with displays of your scintillating intellect.”

“Scintillating? My, now I almost suspect you want something from me.”

I took a bite of the chicken. “I thought I was supposed to be the suspicious one.”

“Touché. Well, as it happens, your ‘confidence’ has at least some degree of merit. I wanted to ask if you’d read what was in the morning paper.”

I shook my head. “I barely ever follow the news. Rarely anything of interest.”

“Ah, but if you don’t read the paper, you’ll miss the occasional intriguingbit that’s buried beneath the rumors, gossip, and advertisements.”

I knew she was baiting me, but the hook sunk. “And this intriguing bit would be...?”

“Two unconnected pieces that paint an interesting picture, if one imagines they’re connected. One is a report of Edrian troop movements along our southern border.”

“They’re posturing. They do that all the time. Edria likes to keep us nervous, flex their military muscle.”

She continued, ignoring my interruption. “The second is a rumor that Tenjin hasn’t attended the last three Council meetings.”

That caught my attention.

Tenjin, the visage responsible for overseeing the Serpent Spire, the one in which I’d taken my own trial, and the only tower local to our kingdom. Asour local visage, he frequently interacted with the local government, serving as an advisor to the queen and the Council of Lords.

But it wasn’t Tenjin that I’d seen in the tower; it was Katashi, the visage normally associated with the Tortoise Spire and the Theocracy of Dalenos.

The visages did travel, of course, but that was supposed to be rare. Missing one Council meeting would have been understandable, but three in a row did strike me as odd. Adding in another visage being inside her tower while foreign troops marched nearby?That sounded a lot like a warning flag for an invasion.

Sera saw something in my expression. “You caught it, too, then. If Tenjin is missing, something may be amiss. Maybe Edria is finally ready to march.”

“People have been saying that for years.” I spoke the words, but my mind was racing in other directions.

I might be the only person who knows about Katashi’s presence in our tower — other than Vera, I suppose, and Keras if he survived. Vera said he was a foreigner. Is Keras from Edria, or off the continent entirely? Could he have something to do with Tenjin being missing?It was a disconcerting thought. Aside from the visages and the god beasts themselves, I couldn’t think of any entity I’d ever heard of that could pose a threat to a visage. The goddess herself didn’t count, of course. She’d never been known to directly intervene in mortal affairs.

Of course, Katashi could have been the reason that Tenjin was missing, too. That was a far worse scenario.

“I know, but their constant troop movements generate complacency, which makes us vulnerable for when they do finally decide to strike.”

I nodded, too wrapped in my own thoughts to give her a coherent reply. “Hm.”

We ate quietly for another minute. “You know something.”

I frowned, looking up at her. “What makes you say that?”

“I know you, Corin. The years haven’t changed us that much.”

Or, at least, you don’t want to admit they have. That’s why you keep teasing me, prodding me, testing me.

You’re not going to like what you find.

But she was right on one count, of course. I did know something. “Later. I can’t talk about it here.”

She wrinkled her nose. “You’re always so careful. Just tell me!”

I shook my head. “Not about this. It’s serious, Sera, and I’m serious.”

Sera paused her eating, tilting her head to the side. “Hm.” After a few moments, she nodded. “All right, but we’re going to talk about this againlater.”

“I can’t make any promises.” I could have just lied to her, but it didn’t feel appropriate. I didn’t like the idea of deceiving someone who was sincerely seeking knowledge.

She rolled her eyes. “Fine. So, what’s your first class?”

***My first class, fortunately, was not with Sera. As much as I liked her, I knew she wasn’t going to stop bothering me about my “secret” until I gave her hints, and I’d put together enough to know that it could put her — and me— in actual danger.

It only occurred to me while I walked that Sera might have been in danger regardless of whether or not I told her what I knew. If anyone knew we were related, they could easily assume she knew whatever I did, or simply try to take her for leverage.

I put “find a way to convince Sera to protect herself” as a high importance item on my mental checklist. I’d need to do it discretely, in a way that didn’t draw too much extra attention toward her.

We both had General Magic Theory as our first class of the day, but we were assigned to different lecture halls; there were about two dozen of them across the campus.

The teacher was an unfamiliar one. She was a young, black-skinned woman with the distinctive poise of a combat mage. She walked with the assistance of a cane, which helped to conceal a limp. A dueling wound, or a war wound, maybe? It took me a moment to realize that the cane she used was a dueling cane. A normal dueling cane might barely reach from elbow to wrist in length; the longer style that could double as a walking cane had fallen out of fashion a century earlier. I’d never trained with one, but I’d seen my great-grandfather’s on display at home.

She took her place at the podium, grinning and revealing a perfect set of teeth. “Good morning, class. I’m Professor Meltlake.”

That line drew a murmur from the class. Her surname was a local legend. She’d earned it by literally setting a lake on fire during a magical duel. I still had no idea how she’d done it.

I was very eager to find out.

“This class will go over the basic principles of magic that are applicable to all users of attunements. As this is the first class, I’ll be taking some time to cover the structure of the course, some basic terminology, and the reading material you’ll need to get started on. But first, we’ll take attendance.”

She read student names from a list, and I answered at the appropriate time. I recognized a few names of people from my dorm, but none of the ones whohad strongly interested me. Patrick Wayland was there, though, and I looked at him when he responded to his name. He caught my look, gave a startled expression, and then gave me a subdued wave. I waved back.

I regretted it almost immediately and began to worry that he would want to socialize with me later. This was followed by a few moments of self- recrimination — after all, why wouldn’t I want to reunite with a childhood friend — and a longer stretch of crushing self-doubt.

The professor tapped her cane against the desk, which snapped me back into attention. “Now that we’ve handled attendance, let’s discuss this class, shall we? Magic Theory will be your primary class this year, and in spite of the generic name, it contains the most important things you’ll be studying. Consequently, Magic Theory will also be the class where you are tested on the sum total of what you’ve learned in other classes.”

She gestured with her cane toward the right wall. “On the other side of the campus, you’ll find the testing grounds. You will be tested three times during the semester on those grounds, typically with a group. These tests will determine if you’ve managed to pick up enough to apply the teachings of all of your classes. Think of each of these tests as being similar to your Judgment, but with a team and more difficult challenges.”

I nodded along with the rest of the class. I’d heard of simulated Judgments before; my brother had taken one. Apparently, it had been insufficient.

“These tests are important for allowing your teachers to evaluate if you’re ready for more dangerous tests such as reentering the tower through the Climber’s Gate. If you make it far enough, you’ll go in through that gate at the end of the semester.”

I heard a series of murmurs from the class on that. I’d already heard about the tower excursion, but apparently it wasn’t common knowledge. Professor Meltlake tapped on the podium again, signaling for silence.

“Of course, that requires a degree of success with the previous tests. Historically, only about sixty percent of our students make it to the final test. Those who fail early in the year will be dismissed and sent directly to military service, without the benefits of being a fully-trained attuned. If you fail toward the end of the year, you’ll be forced to repeat this year’s classes and try again. That will not count as your second year at the academy, and thus, you would still have to complete an additional year of classes before beginning your mandatory service.”

I can’t let either of those happen. If I get sent off to the military without learning to use my attunement, I could die without ever getting another chance at the tower. Even being sent back to restart the year could lower my total score to a point where the military would never allow me to be a climber.

“I’m certain most of you will want to avoid those unseemly fates, and thus, it behooves you to study to the best of your ability. For this class, your primary text will be Elementary Concepts of Magic by Steven Bryer. There are three optional texts, and you’ll find those listed in your papers. I encourage you to read the optional texts, but only if you are keeping pace with your reading for your other classes.”

She smiled, raising her cane. “Now that we’ve gotten through the boring part...”

Meltlake’s cane sprouted a stream of fire into the sky. I heard murmurs of awe from a good number of the students. They apparently hadn’t seen as many demonstrations of magic as I had. That barely rated as a parlor trick.

“Let’s talk about mana calling, shall we?” She grinned, lowering her cane. “Mana calling is the foundation of all magic. All humans have mana in our bodies, and that mana can take several distinct forms. For non-attuned humans and most weak monsters, the majority of this mana is generic. Inacademics, we refer to this as gray mana.

“Non-attuned can generally only utilize their mana through devices, such as a dueling cane. As an attuned, however, you will be learning to utilize your mana for a broad variety of different purposes. An individual application of mana for a specific purpose is generally called a spell, and the use of spells is referred to as magic.”

I could already see a few people frowning, and I could guess at one of the reasons why: some attunements weren’t overtly “magical” in nature. The Guardian Attunement, for example, was focused on unarmed physical combat. I knew they could do things that were beyond normal human capabilities — like breaking a wall with a punch — but I hadn’t thought of that as being magic.

“The most important thing to learn is that magic, as a general concept, is easy. Learning specific spells and getting them right, however, can be quite difficult. To properly cast a spell, you must remember the exact amounts of mana you need, and then draw that mana from the appropriate parts of your body.”

Meltlake twirled her cane like a baton, creating a trail of flame that emitted from the tip and followed her motions. I heard a murmur of awe as she drew a burning attunement symbol, which lingered in the air until she waved her other hand and dispersed the flames. “I am an Elementalist. My attunement gives me access to fire and air mana at the location of the mark — in my case, my right hand. So, what would I do if I ran out of mana in my right hand?”

One of the students stood up to indicate he had a question. Belatedly, Irealized it was Patrick. “Um, we’d need to convert the mana from somewhere else in our body?”

The professor nodded. “Very good. Patrick, was it? You may sit down.”

She tapped her forehead with two fingers. “Let’s take the mind, for example. As one might expect, the mind primarily generates mental mana. As an Elementalist, I can’t actually use this to cast mental spells, but I can convert it into air mana or fire mana through the use of my attunement. This is less efficient than using the appropriate type of mana, and I would not recommend attempting it until you have more experience. That said, it is an essential technique for attuned to learn.”

She gave more examples, explaining that an inappropriate mixture of mana could cause spells to change in function or fail catastrophically.

Hrm, maybe I can deliberately create new spells by mixing different types of mana. I probably shouldn’t experiment with that until I understand this much better, though.

“It’s also important not to draw too much mana from any specific part of your body. Using too much of your heart’s mana will kill you. Using too much of your mind’s mana will also kill you. Other mana pools are less likely to cause immediate death, but nevertheless, overuse is a significant danger and often can cause permanent damage.”

Oh, good, all I have to worry about is brain damage or killing myself when I use my attunement.

Of the two costs, it was the former that made me shudder.

I was willing to sacrifice a great deal in the pursuit of the power I needed, but my mind...

Well, everyone had something they were afraid of losing.

“Your first assignment will be to head to the Divinatory before our next class on Tensday. There, you will be tested to learn your current mana values in your main mana pool locations: mind; heart; right hand; left hand; right leg; left leg; and lungs. You will also be tested to learn safe mana capacities for each location. If you are discovered exceeding your safe limits without explicit permission you will face severe punishments, potentially including expulsion.”

She gave another toothy grin after that line. “Class is dismissed.”

***I escaped the lecture hall as swiftly as I could. I wasn’t quite ready for a reunion with Patrick or any other old friends that might have seen me.

It turns out that spending three years away from school made me less eager to socialize. Who would have guessed?I figured I’d probably catch up with Patrick eventually and make someexcuses; I couldn’t run away from old acquaintances forever. Not if I wanted to succeed, anyway.

Getting to graduation was one of my highest priorities. I needed to graduate and get a high enough score to ensure I could spend my years of military service as a climber rather than in some other branch of the service. To ensure that, I’d need to make sure I took my classes extremely seriously.

I needed allies if I was going to succeed in group tests, and I’d need people I could trust for when I eventually started climbing the tower. No sane person tried to climb one of the towers alone.

Once I’d gotten clear of sight from the lecture hall, my next objective was to figure out which elective I was going to pick. Five of my classes for the year were mandatory, but I had a single elective slot to choose. I should have picked it much sooner — possibly with some advice for the teacher responsible for overseeing Phoenix Division — but it hadn’t felt like a pressing concern. With some of the electives starting that day, though, I had to make a choice.

The most obvious options were the ones that were directly applicable to my attunement. I saw three of those: Introduction to Ritual Magic; The Art of Artifice: Permanent Enchantments; and Introductory Potion Enchantments.

There were also some options that appealed to me on a personal level. Introduction to Magical Dueling would have been the obvious choice in that regard. I’d spent most of my life training with a dueling cane and studying the techniques used by my father, his father, and so on down the line.

Of course, they’d all been attuned, and most of those techniques weren’t things I could hope to mimic properly. Even now, I’d be a sub-par magical duelist; my attunement wasn’t made for direct confrontations. People would probably laugh at an Enchanter for even trying to take the class.

If they did, I’d be the one laughing after our first match. Enchanter or not, I was still a Cadence. I knew how to fight.

I looked at some other options, and a few of the classes focused on history and tactics sounded interesting, but I knew where I was leaning the moment I saw the dueling class on the list.

I also knew I’d potentially be less competitive with my own attunement if I didn’t take an elective to enhance my skills. I decided to find a way to solve both problems at once.

I went back to my room, skimmed the rules, and didn’t see anything indicating I couldn’t take an additional elective. That solidified my plan: I’d take the Art of Artifice and make magical items focused on dueling, while attending the dueling class at the same time.

I’d have to hope I could afford the materials for the items, and that I didn’thave to fight anyone until I had some magic items ready. Gambling on multiple factors made me nervous, but that just meant that I’d have to work harder to minimize the risks.

I knew I’d be hurting for free time if I took an extra class, but that was a problem for future me.

I had a few options on when I could take the classes, but my schedule for the rest of the day was open, so I decided to go to the next dueling class that was available. That ended up being just a few hours later. I used that time to look up the relevant books for the class — it turned out there weren’t any — and to pick up some lunch.

There weren’t any classrooms at the spot on the map where the class was listed. Instead, I found an outdoor stage with stands to seat at least a couple hundred people. It was clearly designed for theater performances, but when I took a seat in the stands, I figured I already had a pretty good idea of what we’d end up seeing on the stage.

I was a bit early, so I watched other students trickling in, trying to size up my competition. At least half the students had a glove on their right hands.

It was traditional for nobles to wear a glove until they had trusted retainers to protect them. The “passing of the glove” was a symbolic release of the wearer’s well-being into the hands of another, and often one of the most significant ceremonies in a noble’s life.

Usually, the glove would be passed to a single retainer who had served the owner for many years. It was a daring formalization of their connection, and some nobles — my father included — never offered their glove to anyone.

I’d always pictured giving my glove to Sera when we were old enough to be attuned. Now, she’d never be a simple retainer to me; she was family.

I’ll probably never find someone else to be my retainer.

It was a disappointing realization. I’d grown up on stories of the legendary bonds of loyalty between nobles and their retainers, and they’d settled in somewhere deep in my psyche. While many childhood ideals had eroded with the passage of time, the idea of having a retainer was rooted deeply enough in reality that it had dug in deep.

This way, at least, I’ll have to earn a retainer rather than being handed one. Maybe that’s for the best.

It felt a little better to think in those terms, and it helped to brush the line of thought from my mind. I turned back to observing the class.

Most of the prospective duelists had the same few attunements: Elementalists; Guardians; and Shapers. I noted a couple Summoners as well.

Summoners are going to be serious trouble until I can make some items... and probably even after that. An Elementalist might be able to handle twoagainst one, but I don’t have any kind of battlefield control capabilities.

Sera must have come to the same conclusion. She arrived shortly after the other Summoners, two familiar figures trailing behind her. The first was Patrick, the same childhood friend I’d seen in my magic theory class. The second was Roland Royce, a son of two of my mother’s retainers.

Patrick had grown broad in the last few years. Not fat, just... thick, like a bear. With a build like his, I would have expected a Guardian attunement or something physically-focused, but he proudly wore an Elementalist mark on his exposed right hand.

Roland was as short as I remembered, and wearing his usual cold and determined expression. At a glance, I didn’t see his attunement mark, but I did see two dueling canes on his belt, one sitting on each side of his hips.

With each use of a cane painfully drawing mana from the wielder’s hands, it would require prodigious focus to use two of them accurately. I expected most people to laugh at Roland when they saw his setup.

Instead, I mentally added him to the top of my threats list. Anyone who underestimated him was going to be sorely disappointed.

If I had been born a few months earlier, Roland would have been one of my own retainers. It was traditional for the children of house retainers to become the retainers for the children of the succeeding line of the house. Since Roland was born before I was, though, he was assigned to Tristan’s service.

When Tristan disappeared, some families would have chosen to move Roland into the service of the next child in line... but my parents had never officially written Tristan off as dead.

Much like Sera, Roland’s parents served my mother, not my father. When my mother left, he too went along with them.

He was currently following Sera, just a couple feet behind and to the right. That was how a retainer walked.

Either one of my parents had formally transferred Roland into Sera’s service — which would be a huge insult to me, as I was older than her — or he was making a statement of his own. Regardless, it certainly brought home my distinct lack of retainers.

They didn’t sit near me, which was... good. I wasn’t sure how I wanted to handle them just yet.

The starting time for the class came and went with no sign of the teacher. I heard murmuring amongst the students, some speculation that Lord Teft might not arrive at all.

It was a full fifteen minutes into the class when one of the students, a tall girl I didn’t recognize, let out a gasp and pointed at the stage.

“He’s ‘ere! Just watching what we do!”

I narrowed my eyes, looking at the spot she was indicating. It was almost imperceptible — a rippling distortion in the air, like a wave of heat. It was only with fierce concentration that I was able to discern the human shape.

The sound of slow applause from the stage accompanied Lord Teft’s appearance.

“Very good, Miss Callahan. A full ten minutes faster than anyone in the previous class noticed me.”

Lord Teft was handsome, the perfect image of a conventional gentleman, though unconventionally dressed. His suit was bright purple, the same color he’d worn on the stage. He leaned against a long wooden cane. Not a dueling cane, this one seemed ordinary. His blonde hair was meticulously cropped and his smile displayed immaculate teeth.

The students fell silent as he spoke. “Perception. This is the single most important characteristic for any prospective duelist. No amount of power, speed, or even finesse is sufficient to overwhelm an opponent who is sufficiently aware of your strengths and weaknesses.”

He turned toward the student who had identified him. “Miss Callahan, you were the first to notice me. How and why? You may stand to answer.”

She stood up, proving even taller than I had expected. She was at least my own height, if not taller. I might have imagined it, but I thought she was blushing a little bit. “Well, sir, I didn’t think you’d be leavin’ us alone on the first day. So, I just kept on lookin’ for you.”

“Good. You may sit.” He waved a hand dismissively. “Something seemed amiss, so she kept looking. Now, can anyone tell me what she did wrong?”

I frowned. Was he going to embarrass her further in front of our class? Roland stood up.

“You.” The teacher pointed at Roland. “Go ahead.”

Roland gestured toward the girl. “She found something that resembled what she was looking for — a blur, an indication of invisibility — and stopped there.”

He folded his arms, turning back toward the stage. “But Shadows can manage things more complex than a single blur, and standing around invisible in the middle of a stage? That’s asking for attention. It’s misdirection. You’re somewhere else.”

Lord Teft grinned. “An interesting assessment. You are also wrong. I’m standing right here. I simply wanted to see if someone would fabricate a mistake when none was made, and you performed admirably. You may sit down.”

Roland’s expression as he sat was even more dour than usual. I couldunderstand why.

Moreover, I was beginning to sense a theme in this teacher’s style. Now that I knew what to look for, I found the blur sitting in the back of stands almost immediately. I concentrated on details as much as possible... and it looked to be roughly the same height and weight as Teft. The clothes seemed to match as well.

Interesting.

Roland might have been wrong about the teacher being on the stage, but the core of his argument was right — the man standing on the stage was a form of misdirection.

Some duelists prided themselves on planning several moves ahead, much in the manner that strategists attempted to in war games. What move was Teft planning?I saw Roland’s gaze shift just slightly, to the same spot I’d seen. He’d seen the blur, too. He knew. And he saw me looking at him.

I nodded, lifting my left hand and quickly extending two fingers in the air.

An old signal we’d used in war games: an alliance offered.

Roland’s eyes narrowed, but he returned the gesture.

The teacher folded an arm behind his back, raising his cane with his right hand and waving at the students. “I suppose most of you are here because you want to learn to fight, yes? No need to wait on that any further, I suppose. Any volunteers?”

I blinked. We’re going to start fighting now? None of us have had any training with our attunements yet. This is going to be a complete mess.

Which is probably what he’s looking forward to, I suspect.

I didn’t stand up. Most of the class did, however. Including Roland and Patrick.

Sera looked right at me, which was interesting. I hadn’t realized she’d seen me. She remained seated as well.

The teacher turned straight to Roland. “Eager to be embarrassed again immediately? What’s your name?”

Roland’s eyes narrowed into a glare. “Roland. Roland Royce.”

“Well, good sir Roland Roland — what an unusual name! — you can come stand up here. And...” He waved at another student, a thin boy with an Elementalist mark on his left hand and a glove on his right. “Master Kent, you can join us as well. The rest of you who volunteered, remain standing.”

Both students made their way to the stage, taking positions on opposite sides. Roland’s hands sat on the hilts of his two canes. “Master Kent” raised his attuned hand into a ready position, indicating he had at least some idea on how to use it.

“Oh, you’re not going to fight each other. That wouldn’t be interesting at all.” He smiled. “Outside of tournaments, most modern duels are not fought between two combatants who are equally eager. The overwhelming majority of duels are between one fighter who wants a duel and someone else who has no choice but to accept.”

The teacher turned to Kent. “Master Kent, you’re the son of a duke. When you inherit, you’ll be able to challenge virtually anyone outside of the royal family to a duel. Let’s assume you feel like showing off — not much of a stretch, I assume — and wanted to do so by beating someone in a duel. Who would you choose?”

The skinny boy scratched his head. “Um, well...” He scanned the crowd. “Can I pick someone who isn’t standing?”

The teacher grinned. “Of course.”

Kent turned his head, looking embarrassed. “Guess I’ve gotta pick Marissa Callahan, then.”

The girl who the teacher had called “Miss Callahan” earlier balled her fists, but remained silent and seated.

The teacher tilted his head to the side. “Why would you select Miss Callahan?”

Kent folded his arms. “Figure she already got ‘erself some points by finding you first. Gotta beat someone who already made an impression.”

It was a fair answer, but his defensive body language and tone told me that he wasn’t giving the whole answer. Interesting. Some history there? He’s got a similar accent, but it isn’t nearly as strong as Marissa’s.

“Interesting reasoning.” Lord Teft smiled. “Miss Callahan, will you please come to the stage? Roland Roland, you can step aside for the moment; you will not be participating in the first duel.”

Roland scowled, stepping off the stage. The teacher stepped back to the furthest point on the raised platform as Marissa reached the stairs, taking a position on the opposite side from Kent. I couldn’t see any exposed attunements on Marissa’s body, so I didn’t know what to expect from her. Kent seemed to know her personally, though, so maybe he was more prepared.

Lord Teft opened a compartment on the side of the stage, retrieving a large wooden box. After a few moments, he opened the top, reaching inside and raising a small metal disc. “Before we begin, I will need to check everyone’s shield sigils. If you’re still standing, you can sit down.”

He walked to Marissa and Kent, briefly putting a hand on their sigils and closing his eyes. “This shield sigil will be your best friend at the school. Currently, both of yours are fully charged, but I will recharge them betweenclasses. Do not lose it. You will not like what happens if you lose it.”

As the combatants took positions on the stage, Teft walked among the rows of the class, checking every single student’s sigil to ensure it was on and fully charged. His jaw was set hard as he watched the students. His playful demeanor had temporarily vanished.

It made perfect sense. Even though there were presumably healers close by, it was tremendously dangerous to have inexperienced students trying to duel without any sort of protective gear. Our uniforms weren’t built like dueling tunics. They would offer minimal protection, if any, from magical attacks.

Lord Teft watched carefully as some of us adjusted the locations of our pins to his satisfaction, speaking as he returned to the stage. “If you use your sigil in class, see me or go to the Divinatory before your next class. For this month, you will have your shield sigil recharged by a teacher or a second year student, even if you think you are capable of recharging it yourself. I will not tolerate any accidents.”

He stepped to the back of the stage, and then turned to Marissa. “Since you are the recipient of the challenge, normally you would be able to refuse. If you wish to remain enrolled in this class, however, you must fight. Will you participate?”

Marissa nodded.

“Good. You may choose the conditions of the duel. Since your opponent is an Elementalist, I would recommend using only canes—”

“I think attunements will be fine.”

Both Kent and the teacher looked stymied by that. After a moment, Kent gave a deep belly laugh. “Your funeral.”

Marissa looked at the teacher. “Can we keep on fightin’ ‘til one of us gets a clean hit in, Lord Teft?”

I took a moment to process the question; her strong country accent was throwing me off. She and Kent were the first students I’d heard with accents like that, and hers was the thicker of the two. I’d seen other commoner students, but mostly merchants and such. Not a lot of people from outside of a major city could afford the cost of taking a Judgement.

What was her story?Teft nodded in response to her question. “Oh, certainly. To be clear, I will ignore glancing blows and only call the match when one of you lands a solid attack?”

Marissa gave a slight bow. “If it’s all right by Master Kent, that is.”

Kent chuckled again. “’Tis fine with me. Means I won’t have to go easy on ye.”

She nodded silently, a look of intense focus crossing her features. Teft stepped off the stage.

“Well, that’s settled, then. Begin!”

No preparation time?I should have expected that, given the teacher’s prior behavior, but it still caught me off guard.

Kent, however, seemed more prepared. He reached with a gloved hand and pulled his cane off his belt, flicking a finger against the activation rune.

A burst of light surged from the cane, but Marissa was already moving. She pivoted to the right and leaned back, the movement causing the blast to miss her by mere inches. Her own cane was in her left hand a moment later.

Kent fired again, but Marissa merely stepped to the side, her eyes focused on her opponent with deadly intent.

A third shot, a forth. Each dodged with no sign of effort.

Marissa was half way across the stage when she raised her own cane for the first time.

The blast ripped across the stage in a moment. Kent attempted to twist out of the way, just as his opponent had, but he was too slow; the attack clipped his right arm. A flicker of sparks erupted as the mana shattered against his protective barrier.

Kent growled, tossing his cane aside and raising his attuned hand. “Was hopin’ to go easy on ye, Marissa, but yer not giving me much of a choice.”

Marissa continued to advance, eyes hard. “Yer not giving me much o’ one, either, m’lord.”

Kent raised his attuned hand and pointed it at Marissa, drawing in a breath before speaking. “Third Breath of the Tiger, I call you!”

A torrent of sparks manifested around Kent’s hand, flickering so brightly that I couldn’t look at them directly. He pointed two fingers directly at his approaching opponent, and then closed his eyes. “Violet Lightning!”

The voltaic charge was too fast for my eyes to follow, and it would have been far too fast for me to dodge. That was probably why Kent had chosen lightning. If Marissa was fighting based on dexterity, he had to choose something she couldn’t evade.

Marissa punched the lightning.

The crackling bolt deflected off her fist, flashing skyward and disappearing into the distance.

By the time Kent had opened his eyes, Marissa had closed the distance.

Her fist glowed brightly as she slammed it into Kent’s chest. The strike launched him back several feet and sent him tumbling to the ground. I winced— even with the barrier that had to hurt.

Lord Teft clapped once. “And that concludes our match.”

Marissa took a deep breath, shivering for just a moment, before returning to her chair.

Two other students rushed to Kent’s side, helping him stand.

I turned my gaze back toward Marissa, who was still breathing heavily in her chair, her forehead matted with sweat. My mind replayed the moment of her deflecting that blast of lightning.

Interesting. She didn’t even use the cane. She’s charging her bare hands with mana.

Lord Teft turned to address Kent. “That, Master Kent, is why an Elementalist should never willingly duel a Guardian without prior preparation.”

The teacher turned to Roland next. “Your turn. Let’s see if you’ve learned anything, hm?”

Roland stepped onto the stage, looking wary.

The teacher gestured at the audience. “Who would you select to duel?” My former friend scanned the audience briefly before his eyes locked onme.

Oh, for the goddess’ sake—“For me, Corin Cadence would be the ideal opponent.”

