CHAPTER II — VALOR

The door vanished behind me, of course.

I pondered the significance of the door’s color for a moment. Was the golden gem just representing a more challenging version of the same style of room? Or maybe these colors had some sort of cultural significance. The room could represent the Tyrant in Gold, for example. If it did, I was probably in a great deal of trouble.

I carefully inspected the floor before I made my way forward. The square- shaped grid wasn’t present here, and I didn’t see any runes or indentations. There were, however, four small grates in the corners of the room. They looked inert for now, but I didn’t like the look of them.

The Valor board was the most obvious set piece for a puzzle. I ignored it and headed straight toward the three doors in the back of the room: green; gold; and orange. Just like the last room. I didn’t know how many rooms I’d have to complete in total, but I’d plan to stick with gold unless I saw a good reason to switch.

Especially if I could skip the puzzle entirely.

I moved my hand toward the golden gem, but pulled it back at the last second. There was a keyhole above the gem. I frowned and checked the other doors. They were all set up in the same way.

Okay, I could deal with that. Maybe. I had a key, but I didn’t know if it would fit. I headed back to the gold door, unslung the rope that was still awkwardly hanging over my shoulder, and set down my backpack.

The first thing I noticed was that the rope was a lot shorter than when I had started. I’d lost the looped section, as well as over a dozen feet of length. Maybe it’d been nicked by one of the blasts from my shadowy rival, or maybe it had been bisected when I stepped through the doorway into the next room. That was a scary thought.

I had known the doorways were actually teleporting me, but I hadn’t considered what would happen if I trailed something behind me. Could that be used to my advantage? Maybe I could use the doorways offensively in later challenges somehow. A good thing to keep in mind for the future.

I undid the knot around my waist and folded up the rope, emptying out my backpack to put the remaining rope back on the bottom. When I was removing the book, though, I noticed something odd.

On the cover, “Trials of Judgment” was now written in an antiquated style.

I flipped the book open and gawked at what I saw. The first two pages had been written in.

This is the Room of Reflection. Move swiftly; any tile you stand upon too long will fall into the void below.

The mirror poses a grave danger. Avoid showing your reflection.

I really wished I had seen that earlier, but honestly, I wasn’t sure I would have had time to read it even if I had known the hint was there. Was that the book’s function? Hints for each room? If so, it was incredibly valuable. I flipped to the next page.

This is the Room of Valor. Complete the game to advance. Beware the rising mist.

I frowned. Mist? What mist?Oh, the stuff that was rising from the grates on the side of the room. Iknew I hated those.

I dug for the key and kept it in my left hand while I buried the other items in my pack. I considered trying it on the doors immediately — maybe it was a way to bypass the puzzle. If it was, however, I suspected I’d only be able to use it once; according to legend, at least, the goddess didn’t like people reusing the same solutions. I would rather save it if I could.

I moved to the table, keeping the key close at hand. The mist was rising, but not particularly rapidly. I guessed I’d have at least a few minutes before it got high enough that I’d be breathing much of it in. Of course, if it was acid mist or something, I’d need to act a lot sooner.

I’d played a lot of Valor in my youth. It was a fairly standard game of tactics, common in noble households like my own. Each side started with twenty pieces, many of which had different functions. Based on what I’d read, I assumed I’d be playing against the tower itself.

If the tower played like an average civilian, I’d have a good chance.

If the tower played like my childhood companion, Sera, well... I’d have better luck inhaling the mist.

The Valor board was stone, and the figures atop it were forged from red and blue gems. The board was in a standard starting configuration, save for a single missing piece on the red side. The ruby statue from the first room, I realized. If I had taken that, I’d have one more piece to play.

Assuming I sat on the red side of the table.

I sat down on the blue side, which was opposite from the entrance. It was unintuitive, but I hadn’t been given any instructions. Nothing said I had to take the side with a disadvantage. My hand shook as I reached for the first piece.

The mist was rising. How long did a game of Valor usually take? A half hour, maybe, against a new opponent? Maybe a little less, if the enemy was missing a key piece. Fifteen minutes.

I didn’t have that kind of time.

I reached across the table for the red side and systemically removed each of their pieces from the board, with the exception of their goddess.

Then, I moved my own visages into pincer positions around the enemy goddess. She was pinned; the game was won.

A red key appeared in the center of the table. I cheered aloud, shamelessly.

Cheating? Nah. I was just playing to win.

I picked up the red key, heading for the gold door.

I knew even before I tried it that the key wasn’t going to fit.

Apparently, brute forcing a victory on the board earned me a specific typeof key, not access to any room I wanted.

My winged key from the first room was gold. Would it work on the golden door? Probably, but I still wanted to save it for an emergency.

I knew the orange door might take the red key. I hadn’t been into an orange room, though, and I wasn’t sure if it would have a gold exit as an option — meaning my gold key might be useless if I headed on that path.

If I continued down the gold path, however, I was likely to continue to see orange doors. It was a safer option.

I tried the golden key in the lock for the golden door. It twisted in place with a click. I retrieved the key successfully and then touched the gem. The door slid open.

The next room was fairly straightforward; I could see three doors on the opposite side of a yawning chasm that covered two thirds of the chamber. A standard chasm challenge. The door gems on the opposite side of the roomwere the same colors as the ones in the current chamber, confirming the pattern.

The chasm wasn’t fathomless this time. I saw water maybe twenty feet below where I stood. There was a ladder on the opposite side of the room, leading out of the water and up to the side with the doors. I also saw two blocks with what looked like levers embedded in them. Presumably, those were switches to make a bridge across the water.

Metal poles were anchored into the walls. There were two on each side, spanning the entire chasm. They were a few inches out from the wall, and it looked like I could potentially grab onto one and walk on the other. It was probably an alternate way to traverse the gap for someone with a lot of dexterity.

Since I was able to successfully retrieve my key, it dispelled a bit of my paranoia about the keys being single-use. I still couldn’t be confident it would always be like that, but it meant I could probably do a little more testing without being overly worried about losing my keys.

Before heading into the room with the chasm, I walked to the orange door to test my hypothesis about the red key. The mist was at nearly waist level now, so I didn’t want to take much longer. The rising vapor was chilly, but didn’t burn my skin or anything, and I wasn’t feeling any obvious symptoms from it.

I turned the key in the lock — it clicked into place. Apparently, red keys and orange doors were compatible. I retrieved the key and opened the door.

The chamber in front of me was gigantic. Looking up from the doorway, I could see up hundreds of feet, with no indication of a ceiling above.

A gigantic eye stared at me from the opposite side of the room. It was perhaps fifty feet away and three times my height.

By that, I mean that the eye was three times my height. Just the eye. The monster it was attached to? Well, I couldn’t get a good look at it from my vantage point, but it was the sort of size you counted in floors, not feet.

I did see azure, shield-like scales around the eye, though. And that gave me a good idea of what I was looking at.

Seiryu, the God Serpent. Guardian of the Serpent Spire. It was looking right at me.

I stepped away from the door, allowing it to close, and rushed into the chasm room.

I never considered myself a coward. I didn’t think of myself as very brave, either. When seeing a god beast, though, my level of bravery was largely irrelevant. No sane mortal would have lingered another moment in that creature’s sight.

I only hoped it wouldn’t follow me. If it did, no walls, no teleportation to other rooms, and no degree of prayer would save me.

Inside the chasm room, I forced my eyes shut, taking deep breaths. I’d been scared before, of course, but—Seeing the sheer scale of that thing, knowing that it could annihilate me effortlessly... It made me feel smaller. Insufficient.

What am I doing here?I shook my head, clearing my mind. I had work to do.

I glanced around the room, getting a better look now that I was inside. The challenge seemed fairly straightforward, but first impressions could be deceptive. The floor wasn’t divided into tiles, which was good. I didn’t want to have to take a circuitous route.

I took a few steps closer, nearing the chasm itself. The water started only a few feet below where I was standing. It looked deep, but not insurmountably so; I could see a stone floor maybe around twenty or so feet down. No signs of monsters in the water, but I did see a large grate on my own side that could hide something behind it. Horrible apparitions, maybe, or treasure.

It was too easy. Maybe the room was designed to give me a chance to rest, but it didn’t fit what I knew of Selys. One of the goddess’ many titles was “The Mistress of Trials”, and it was well-known that she enjoyed providing mortals with escalating challenges. She was a gambler of a goddess, and she expected her followers to follow her example.

So, what was the gamble here? Would the obvious hand-holds on the side break away from the wall, sending me into the water below? That was underwhelming. I mean, I’d just made it through two rooms that were almost undoubtedly lethal.

I wasn’t far from the water, so I pulled the dueling cane off my belt and extended it, reaching down to tip the metal blade into the liquid below. There was no obvious reaction when it touched the surface of the pool, so I withdrew the weapon and ever-so-carefully set it down.

I opened my backpack, pressing the top of the quill against the wet metal. No telltale burning. I leaned down and sniffed, and the liquid didn’t smell like much of anything. Finally, I gingerly pressed a finger on my left hand against the liquid. Nothing. Ordinary water, as far as I could tell.

Hrm. If it wasn’t acid, what was I dealing with? Just a time limit, maybe? The backpack was already out, so I opened the book.

When I flipped to the next page, I saw something new: fresh writing. The text appeared as I watched.

This is the Room of False Choices.

That was it. No further explanation, no detail. In a moment of frustration, I removed the quill from my bag and wrote a reply on the same page. There was plenty of blank space; each room started on a new one.

Dear Mysterious Book Entity,I would like to inquire about more details pertaining to the Room of False Choices. Would you, perhaps, deign to provide me with insight on how best to proceed?Yours in inquiry,Corin of the House CadenceI chuckled, dispelling some the lingering fear from my own mind. Absurdity had always been an excellent shield against the threat of negative emotions. I did not expect a reply.

Dear Corin,(May I call you Corin?) There’s no need to be sarcastic.

But it’s been so long since anyone has written me (or in me?), I suppose I can offer you a glimmer of such insight.

Provided you’re not blind, you can currently see three doors from the entry of your room. Those are options for exiting your chamber, but they are not the best ones.

As much as I am enjoying our correspondence, I must encourage you to hurry. Even as you read, your true choices begin to fade.

Yours in useful insight, Mysterious Book EntityI stared blankly at the now-filled text.

What...?The reply had filled the remainder of that page and carried on to the next. I wasn’t sure what that would mean for help in the next room, but for the moment, I had bigger concerns. I stowed the book and the quill. I was, apparently, wasting time.

So, the puzzle was figuring out the real exit. Or exits.

My mind immediately went to the grate within the pool. That seemed accessible, if I felt like diving in. Which, at present, I didn’t.

I checked the walls on my side next. Were there any hidden panels, signs of secret doors?I didn’t find anything immediately, but I did get a new idea. I tossed my backpack right back down, grabbing the book and quill and transcribing the text.

Dear Mysterious Book Entity,I’m looking for someone named Tristan Cadence. He entered the tower five years ago and he may or may not currently be alive. I would be immensely grateful if you could tell me anything about what happened to him.

Thank you, CorinI stared at the book with growing nervousness for several moments before I saw the reply.

Dear Corin,You shouldn’t be asking me about that right now.

You should be more concerned about surviving this room. Yours,Mysterious Book EntityI sighed, putting my things away. More time lost.

I eyed the switches on the other side. What would they do?One of them had the switch side facing toward me, the other was facing the opposite direction. Interesting.

I heard some kind of clicking noise somewhere, and then a loud scraping that traveled across the entire right wall of the room.

Resh. I really hope that isn’t the god beast looking for me. Okay. Calm. Let’s hit those switches.

I had enough rope to reach the other side of the chasm, but I didn’t trust myself to lasso one of the switches in a timely fashion. I chose to lift the dueling cane and aim it carefully at the switch on the right, pressing my thumb against the button.

The blast ripped forward, striking true — and snapping the top half of the switch right off. Apparently, those things weren’t very sturdy.

Three options left in my mind: a lasso; a swim; and the bars on the sides. I went with the lasso. I didn’t trust that water in the slightest.

My first attempt to catch one of the switches missed. The second time, the rope landed in the water, soaking through. That added weight made it harder to throw, but easier to control — I managed to encircle the switch that was facing away from me. With a yank, I pulled it toward me. The water began todrain from the pool.

Which was great in one respect: the water terrified me. Less great was that a comfortable four foot drop into water was now swiftly becoming a twenty- four foot fall into a pair of broken legs.

I had a decision to make, and quickly. I dropped the rope and rushed for the nearest wall, where the hand-holds were, and grabbed on tight. Pulling hard, I determined that the holds seemed sturdy. Then I made my way across the chasm, hand over hand.

The entire room rumbled as I moved, nearly sending me tumbling into the diminishing water below. I wanted to fall sooner rather than later if I was going to; there was enough water left to serve as a cushion, but it wasn’t going to last much longer.

Of course, I didn’t want to fall at all. Even if that liquid was really water and not acid, I didn’t know what other dangers lay within. Maybe a monster would come out of that grate as soon as the water drained, or acid would rise from the floor.

One hand in front of the other. Twice, I lost the grip with one of my hands and had to haul myself back into position... but I made it across.

I walked over to the other switch, the one I had broken, and pushed the remaining half of the handle.

Back where I had made my entrance, three doors appeared with gems of black, silver, and bronze coloring.

I didn’t have the faintest idea what those meant.

My arms ached. I felt something on my head — dust or tiny rocks, crumbling from the ceiling above me. That rumbling wasn’t illusory; the room was beginning to collapse.

I turned back to the chasm. The water was nearly gone now. I had hoped one of the switches would provide a bridge, but that was clearly too much to ask for.

Did I trust my arms to carry me back across the chasm to the new doors? The book had hinted that the exits nearest me were sub-optimal solutions, but it didn’t imply they’d be deadly. I might be better off taking the “easy” route out and testing myself in the next room.

I found myself making my way over to the pit’s edge, but not to cross it.

Instead, I gripped the ladder, slowly climbing down.

I needed to know what was behind that grate.

The ladder was steel, slippery from contact with the water, but embedded in the wall similar to the handrails. It was sturdy and easy to climb.

I tested a foot against the ground before dropping off the ladder entirely.

The floor itself seemed solid, and I didn’t see any signs of other traps.

I made my way to the grate. It was taller than I was and blocked by iron bars. I saw a keyhole on the right side of the gate, but it wasn’t marked with any specific color, nor was there a gem like on the doors above. Beyond the bars, I could see only darkness.

I stuck the back of the quill through the bars first. It came back perfectly intact. The blackness wasn’t some kind of annihilating field, at least.

I slowly tried a finger next. There was no pain, no wetness. Nothing uncomfortable.

The floor rumbled.

This may not be a gem-studded door, but I think it qualifies as a non- standard exit.

I readied the dueling cane, stepped back, and blasted the bars off the gate.

I had chosen my exit.

I stepped into the dark.

