CHAPTER III — LIMITED OPTIONS

I was immensely relieved when I found myself standing in an illuminated tunnel. The walls hugged close around me. The tunnel was roughly cylindrical, and barely wider than I was.

I turned around, finding a circular door behind me. There was no obvious lock, just a clear gemstone at the center.

Interesting.

I opened the door immediately. It led into a hexagonal chamber with pristine white walls. The walls were somewhat less important than the massive pendulums swinging back and forth throughout the room.

I was barely quick enough to step back before one of them swished out of the doorway. I’d been inches away from being pulverized — the swinging spheres were solid stone, maybe four feet in diameter, and moving fast enough to pulp me.

Odd that the trap swung outside of the door... I’ve never seen one of the traps exit the boundary of a room before. What was it doing before I walked in? Did the pendulums activate when I approached, or was that sphere slamming into the door before I opened it? I didn’t hear anything hitting the wall, but it could be covered in sound-proofing runes.

Now out of the pendulum’s swinging range, I took a deep breath and looked at the room a bit more closely. Five different pendulums, and for variety, a scythe-like blade swinging near the center. Each pendulum had a different trajectory.

One more swinging in parallel on the left side of the room.

Two swinging perpendicular to the first, located on the right side of the room.

One final pendulum swinging diagonally, near the rear of the left side.

More interestingly, there were square-shaped crystalline sections on various parts of the walls, roughly four feet across. A blue one on the ceiling,a red one on the right wall, and a yellow one on the floor below where one of the pendulums were swinging.

No doors, aside from the entrance. The crystalline sections were presumably the exits.

Evaluating the speed of the swinging balls of doom, I figured I could make it out of the doorway and onto the right side of the room between swings if I really wanted to.

I really didn’t.

I stepped further away from the door, allowing it to close. The pendulum cracked against the door a moment later, and I shuddered at the sound of the impact. Fortunately, the door remained intact. I didn’t see any signs of damage on my side of it, either.

I decided I’d consider this a potential exit route, but I was interested in seeing what was at the end of the hall. Also, I was even more interested in not getting stuck in a room filled with whirling death traps.

The hall was long enough that I managed to slip my dueling cane back on my belt and unsling my backpack to remove the book before I reached the end of it. I skipped to the last section with writing.

You shouldn’t have done that.

I blinked.

I put the book away.

The path terminated at a rectangular chamber, and I could immediately see why the book had been concerned.

First, there was the dead body.

Blood pooled around a corpse in the center of the chamber, some of it looking congealed. The victim was a man around my age, dressed in fancy clothes. His most distinctive characteristic was the hole in his chest, roughly the size of my fist. It went straight through his body, as perfectly cylindrical as the hallway I emerged from.

He wasn’t the only one there, however.

At the back of the room were three smaller chambers constructed from some sort of transparent material, likely a type of glass or crystal.

Each chamber held a single person. Two of them were looking at me.

The chamber on the far right held a woman in her twenties, leaning forward against the transparent wall. I barely heard the banging; something seemed to be dampening the sound. She wore garb I’d associate with a traveling merchant: a lot of pouches; a couple necklaces; and heavy boots andgloves. From her dark brown skin, I assumed she was Caelish. After a moment, she knocked on the wall, frowning at me.

The central chamber held a black-haired man wearing a silver eye mask. The exposed section on the bottom of his face was light skinned and clean shaven, the latter point implying that he was either relatively young or hadn’t been in the cell for very long. He leaned against the back wall of the chamber, his arms folded. The hint of a long sheathed weapon, most likely a sword, was visible beneath his ornate overcoat.

My heart stopped for an instant when I looked at him. The masked man looked almost like my brother.

Tristan had seemed taller, but I’d been twelve years old when he’d left.

Maybe that was just my memories playing a trick.

Their weight and build were about right. The figure in the cell looked a bit more athletic, but five years was a long time to potentially put on some muscle.

His hair was too dark, too long, but that could be explained by hair dye and the passage of time.

His skin was too light, but maybe he was sick from all this time in a cell... I shook my head. The similarities were enough to trigger painful memories, but the differences were too pronounced. I wanted it to be mybrother in there, but it wasn’t him. I’d have to find Tristan later.

On the far left was another prone figure, a boy. He looked a few years younger than me. His skin was even darker than the young woman’s, nearly pitch black. His head was shaved, and he had an extensive web-like tattoo in white ink across his forehead. No pool of blood around him, fortunately.

Upon seeing the woman continue to pound on the wall, I realized what I was seeing: prison cells. They were trapped inside.

And someone — possibly their jailor — was dead right outside. Disconcerting.

I frowned, moving toward the corpse. The masked man raised a single hand while I approached, giving a curt shake of his head.

Was the body a trap? Or was he just saying that it was far too late for the victim?Or maybe he didn’t want me to know how the man had been killed?I glanced around the room, looking for anything vaguely cylindrically shaped on the walls. I didn’t find anything of the kind, but I did find a hexagonal panel on the floor, not far from where the man had fallen.

Was the dead man a candidate like me, someone who had stumbled upon the jail?Resh.

Carefully, I went to the body, ignoring the masked man. I avoided the hexagonal shape, glancing from side to side as I knelt.

The woman who had been pounding on the wall gave me a curt nod.

I took that as sign that I was safe to continue, reached down, and rolled the body toward me.

I heard a click.

I jumped backward just in time to avoid the spear of light that flashed across the room from left to right, flickering and fading as it hit the opposite wall.

Shuddering where I stood, I looked down, finding a small depressed tile beneath the body I had just moved. I’d just re-triggered the trap that had killed him.

If I hadn’t seen the body, I might have died in the same way.

His eyes stared open in disbelief. I thought I recognized him from the line outside, but I was probably fooling myself. There were hundreds of candidates.

I had always known these tests had the potential to be fatal, but somehow, seeing this had finally made it real.

I leaned down and closed his eyes, shaking my head.

“I’m sorry you died like this. I hope your spirit finds peace.” They were hollow words, and I knew it.

I searched through what he was carrying. It wouldn’t do him any good now.

There wasn’t much of use. He was wearing a sword and dagger on his belt. The dagger looked valuable, with the hilt being carved into a golden lion’s head. I left them both, instead taking the glove off his right hand. It had an unfamiliar symbol embroidered on it in gold, similar to my own glove. A family symbol.

I slipped it into my bag. I’d look for them.

I could feel the eyes of the prisoners on me, but I didn’t care. I continued going through his belongings, searching the pouches at his side. Food, water, a candle. A key, blue in color.

I took the key, putting it in my pack, and carefully made my way over to the crystalline walls of the cells.

“—hear me?” I caught the voice of the woman. She was a bit muffled, but audible. I watched every step as I approached, and just in case, I scanned the ceiling as well. I found a few more trap panels on the floor, but nothing visible on the roof.

“I can hear you,” I said at normal volume. She nodded, and the black- haired man finally moved, approaching the corner of his cell where he couldget closest to us.

“Good. Don’t do anything yet.” She looked like she was talking loudly, nearly yelling. I could hear her a little better now that I was close. “Don’t touch the walls.”

I had been just about to touch the walls. “Okay,” I said. “What’s going on here?”

The masked man tapped a fist on the inside of his wall. “Crystalline structure. Nearly unbreakable. I could manage it, but the cells are warded. If I broke mine, the wards on the other two would trigger defenses.”

Warded?I glanced at the crystalline walls more carefully, narrowing my eyes. I wasn’t attuned yet, but I could see some hints of blue energy within the crystalline structure. They looked almost like hovering letters.

Yep, warded.

“Listen closely,” the woman said. “I’m Vera Corrington. If you help me get out of here, I can help get you nearly anything—”

“You should help the kid,” the man cut in. “He’s been unconscious for nearly two days. Dehydrated, most likely.”

“Don’t be a fool.” Vera glanced at the masked man. “The child has no chance of making it out on his own, and the key is only going to work once.”

I frowned, looking at Vera. “Exactly which key do you mean?”

Vera folded her arms. “The blue one you found on that poor bastard’s body. There should be locks outside each of our cells, but these things eat keys. You won’t be able to help all of us.”

The masked man walked to the center of his cell, tapping a part on the wall. I could just barely see a keyhole there, now that he was indicating it.

Resh. One key, three locks. Was this a part of the test?It easily could be seen that way, if I broke it down into component parts. A dead body to indicate the traps. I could only free one person. The obvious option — the child — might already be dead, and a waste of a key. A man and a woman were the other options, maybe to appeal to people of the opposite gender?Or, of course, it could actually be a prison.

Had I found a place in the tower I wasn’t supposed to be?It seemed unlikely. The goddess was supposed to observe everything in the tower and guide our paths. At least, according to legend.

Was it possible that the prison was real, but that the goddess had guided me here? To give me a chance to free one of them, or maybe all of them?There were too many things I didn’t know. I had to treat the situation asreal — meaning that I was actually being given a chance to free someone who was trapped in the tower.

Someone like Tristan.

“Has either of you met someone named Tristan? Another prisoner, maybe?”

The two adults looked at each other, and then both shook their heads.

The masked man spoke. “Others have come and gone, but I haven’t heard of anyone by that name.”

Vera jerked a thumb at the man. “This guy would know. He’s been in here for weeks, if you believe his stories. And he can survive longer, too, which is why you should free me.”

I sighed. Shouldn’t have hoped for anything this soon. I just need to stick to the plan and make the climb to the top.

In the meantime, maybe I can help someone else.

I scratched my chin. Truthfully, I wasn’t certain I should free anyone. If they were here, wasn’t that the goddess’ will?Thinking that way wasn’t going to get me anywhere, though. If everything here was part of the goddess’ plan, freeing them was just as likely to be what Selys wanted. And if the goddess wanted people my age to bleed out on the floors of her towers, well, I wasn’t certain I could trust her judgment.

It was a blasphemous way to think, but Tristan’s disappearance had changed me.

I looked at the masked man. “Not making any argument for me to free you?”

He shook his head. “That child is dying. Vera is right when she says it may be too late, but I wouldn’t want it on my conscience if he died when he could be saved.”

I nodded. I couldn’t disagree with that reasoning.

“Tall dark and shady over there has a point, but he’s not mentioning another possibility. He’s not all that attached to me. Might be that if you free the kid, he’ll break out of his own cell and make me dead.”

The masked man shook his head. “You’re paranoid.”

She tilted her head to the side. “A few days stuck with you and anyone would be.”

“What are the two of you doing in here, anyway?” I folded my arms. “What is this place?”

Vera sighed, running fingers through greasy hair. “Stepped in a place I shouldn’t have. Happens to delvers all the time.”

I frowned. “Delvers?”

The masked man spoke next. “A fancy term for looters.”

Vera gave a crooked smile, highlighting a scar across her upper lip. “I prefer ‘treasure hunter’.” She rolled her eyes. “Anyway, there are traps all over these towers. Some of them are merciful enough to be fatal. Others set off alarms, or drop you into places like this. It was the first for me, the second for this Keras over here.”

Keras bristled. “If by ‘dropped’ you mean ‘teleported’. I wouldn’t get caught in a mere pit.”

“Right, sure you wouldn’t. Anyway, we’re equally stuck, but you’re the wanted criminal.” Vera turned back to me. “And if you let the kid out, there are good odds he’s going to cut himself loose. Which is a shame, because all the fire and lightning from those wards is going to be terrible for my complexion.”

If people like them could get “caught” and imprisoned here, there’s a good chance it’s happened to others. That makes the odds Tristan is still alive somewhat higher...but I don’t know how long someone could survive in a cell like this.

Vera’s argument made me nervous, but I couldn’t just leave a child to die.

I moved toward the child’s cell with the utmost care and raised the key. “Thank you,” Keras said.

I glanced at him. “After I free the child, stay there. If you try to break yourself out while Vera is still in her cell, I’ll deliberately trigger every trap I can to make sure you never walk out of here.”

He nodded. “I understand.”

Vera let out a low hiss. “I don’t like this. You’d better know what you’re doing, kid.”

I glanced to her. “I’m pretty sure I do. One question, though. How do you know it’s the blue key that opens these doors?”

She shrugged. “It’s the same color the jailor uses. Why?”

I pointed at the lock. “The keyhole is gray. Could they accept other keys, maybe?”

Vera nodded. “There’s a chance, but other keys might also trigger the wards. It’d be a risk.”

I nodded, considering, as I turned the blue key in the lock.

A section of the wall vanished entirely, taking the key with it. That explained how the key was “used up”, as they explained.

I didn’t step inside the cell immediately; it could have easily been another trap. I removed my rope from my backpack and tried to get the lasso around the kid’s waist.

Vera quirked an eyebrow. “Seriously? I get that you’re cautious, kid, but that seems like overkill.”

“A lack of caution is why we’re in these cells, Vera.” Keras leaned on the wall next to her cell.

“Speak for yourself. My room wasn’t even remotely fair.”

So, she’d failed a challenge and ended up here? Could Tristan have done the same, and ended up in another prison?It was a chance. Not a good chance, but a possibility. If he was alive, that meant that asking the goddess for the boon of returning him would be much more likely to succeed. People said the goddess could raise the dead, but I didn’t know of any confirmed cases. Just legends.

I clung to that hope as I managed — barely — to get the lasso around the kid’s waist.

“You’re going to hurt him.”

That was Vera speaking, which was interesting. She hadn’t sounded all that concerned about the kid before.

I turned back toward Vera. “You really want me to step in there? There’s a chance the wall will close behind me, or that it’ll trigger another trap.”

“At least...move him slowly, yeah?”

I nodded, inspecting the floor carefully before I dragged the boy’s body across it. The cell wasn’t large, so it didn’t take me long to get him outside. I gingerly picked him up and set him on a non-trapped part of the floor, then turned him over.

His chest still rose and fell. His lips, however, were cracked and torn.

I didn’t really know how feed an unconscious kid water. Maybe one of the others in the cells did, though.

I stood up, brandishing my red key.

Vera narrowed her eyes at me. “Now where’d you get a thing like that?” “Room with a Valor board.” I turned to Keras. “You seemed to understandthe wards... I take it you’re attuned?”

“In a manner of speaking. That’s not important. I do understand the wards, for the most part.”

Enigmatic, but sufficient. “All right. Can you determine if an incorrect key will trigger the wards?”

He knelt by his own keyhole, examining the crystal. “I don’t believe so.” I quirked a brow. “You don’t believe?”

“I’m not an expert at this style of warding.”

Not good. “Okay. Do you think the explosion would kill people outside the cells if the wards are triggered?”

He shook his head. “No. They are a failsafe for destroying prisoners. The jailor would need to be able to do it and remain safe from right outside.”

I looked to Vera. “Do you know anything that would contradict what he’ssaying?”

“No, he’s a little scary, but I think he knows what he’s talking about. So, um, if you’re going to free one of us...”

I looked back to Keras. “If I freed Vera, would you be able to break yourself out and survive the resulting explosion?”

He nodded once.

“Uh, before you do that,” Vera stepped away from her cell door, “I should probably remind you that he’s a wanted criminal.”

Keras put a hand to his forehead. “I’m just a foreigner, Vera. That doesn’t automatically make me a criminal.”

“I’m just sayin’, innocent people don’t usually run around in masks.” A fair point.

And if he was a criminal, getting him to swear he wasn’t going to harm us wouldn’t really mean much.

I wasn’t confident that freeing everyone was the right choice, but I was even less confident I was going to make it out of here on my own while trying to care for an injured child.

“Keras, I’m Corin. You want to tell me what your side of the story is?”

I was humanizing myself, trying to diminish the chance he’d murder me the second he got out.

“Not now.”

That was not a good answer.

“But, if you get me out of here, I’ll tell you when we’re out of the tower.” An implication that we’d be leaving together. I could work with that.

I made my way over to Vera’s cell, holding the red key. “You both okay with taking this risk?”

I could see a hint of fear in Vera’s expression, but she hid it well. “I think I’ll die of boredom if I don’t take this chance. So, yeah, go for it.”

The masked man just nodded. I put the key in the lock.

Nothing happened. I tried to turn the key and it didn’t budge. “Well, that was anticlimactic.” Vera sighed loudly.

I put the red key back in my back and withdrew the gold one. Vera blinked at me.

“Do you just have a bag full of keys or something?” I shook my head. “Last one.”

I’d been hoping to hold onto the gold key, since it had been the one coded to the path I’d been taking so far. Still, I couldn’t in good conscience leave without trying it.

I tried the gold key.

It turned. The door to Vera’s cell vanished.

She blinked, hesitantly reaching a hand into the space outside. A broad grin spread over her face as her hand exited the cell.

She stepped outside, grabbing me in a hug. “Ooh, yes! Freedom! Thanks, kid.”

I may have blushed.

I turned my head toward the masked man. I didn’t see him move. The space where he’d been blurred, and I heard the sound of metal ringing against stone.

A section of the wall of his chamber had been cut away, leaving nothing but a pile of cleanly-sliced rubble where it had once stood. Keras’ weapon was already sheathed again. I never saw it in his hand.

Holy goddess. What...?There was no sign of triggering the wards Keras had mentioned. Had he been lying, or were the wards simply disabled because two of the doors were already open? I couldn’t be sure.

“We should leave.” Keras moved out of the cell with deliberate slowness.

He stepped over the trap that had killed my predecessor, moving to the child’s side and kneeling down. He looked at me. “Do you have water?”

I nodded, fumbling for my backpack, and withdrew a flask. I tossed it to him without a second thought. He caught it, of course.

Vera watched the whole exchange with narrowed eyes.

Keras uncapped the bottle, tilting the young boy’s head at an angle. Then, he opened the child’s mouth and poured water down his throat.

The boy coughed, but he swallowed some of the water. A good sign, I hoped. I was never very good at medicinal matters.

The masked man tossed the flask back toward me. I missed the catch, but Vera caught it.

“Mind if I take a swig?” I shook my head.

She drank deeply from the flask, making a satisfied “ah!” sound, and then handed it back to me.

I replaced the flask in my bag, looking back to her. “There’s some water on the body, too. I didn’t take it.”

Vera knelt down next to the corpse, taking the bag that carried his food and water. “Thanks. This’ll be useful.”

She looked nervous. I felt the same way.

“Come.” Keras knelt down, picking up the unconscious child. He draped the kid over his shoulder and stood back up, leading the way out of the room. Vera and I carefully avoided the trapped spots on the floor, following him intothe hallway.

He walked quickly, which let Vera and me deliberately fall a bit behind. I turned my head to her. “You know much about him?”

She lifted her hands and shrugged. “He was in there a lot longer than I was, from what I understand. I’ve only been here a few days, thank the goddess. Seen him do a few more magic tricks in his cell. Not sure what his attunement is. I’ve never seen anything like that sword trick, cutting stone.”

I thought on it. My best guess? He had multiple attunements. That was rare, but not unheard of. Maybe the Legionnaire attunement and something related to swords?But that wouldn’t explain his speed. Three attunements?Practically unheard of, but I couldn’t think of a better explanation. I’d have to get more information first.

“He’s a delver, like you are?”

She shook her head. “Pretty sure he’s not. A climber, probably.”

I knew that term; it meant someone who was trying to reach the top of the tower. There were legends that anyone who reached the top of one of the six Shifting Spires would receive a blessing from Selys, and that someone who conquered all six towers would be lifted into the skies to reside with the visages.

Most people didn’t take the latter legend seriously, but there were plenty of people who claimed that they had reached the top of a tower and been given something by one of the visages: wealth; enchanted items; maybe even an additional attunement. The stories varied from person to person. It was likely there was something at the top.

The promise of a divine reward was a tremendous temptation. There were hundreds of climbers in each city, many of whom already had attunements. Climbers entered through different gates than the one used for Judgments, so they could go inside in groups.

Sane people kept their groups to a half dozen or so, though. The tower punished anything it saw as a threat, and everyone knew the stories about what had happened when it did.

The Kingdom of Feria had once tried to invade the fifth tower. It was nothing but dust and ruins, now.

We continued walking down the hallway. In the limited time before we reached the next room, I’d have to gather as much information as I could.

“Do you think he’s a danger to us?”

Vera shrugged. “Of course. But we’re still better off following in his wake.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Why is that?”

She put a hand on the nearby wall. “Because we just broke out of a prison so, this is a threat to us, too. The tower doesn’t like it when you break the rules.”

I frowned. “You make it sound like the tower is sapient.”

“How else do you explain the constantly changing layout? The treasures that appear for one person who completes a challenge, but not another? Do you really think Selys is watching every room in every tower simultaneously, hand-picking who gets attunements and re-sculpting chambers?”

“I tend to lean toward Bermer’s spectral theory of tower design.”

“Oh, you’re a little scholar. How adorable! I haven’t read that one, so you’re going to have to fill me in.”

“Incorporeal minions, essentially. Dozens of them for each tower.”

Vera nodded, running a hand through her hair again. She looked disheveled, which was unsurprising if she’d been here for days. “Yeah, I could see that. Amounts to about the same thing as a thinking tower, though.”

“Sort of. If there are multiple entities, they might have to communicate with each other, which means some routes might be safer than others. And maybe they wouldn’t all be in agreement on how to handle us.”

“Mmm.” She gestured toward Keras. “Looks like we’re about out of time, kid.”

Keras reached the door at the end of the hall. I rushed forward just as the door opened, remembering the trap a moment too late.

The pendulum arced through the doorway, thousands of pounds of swinging stone. Keras’ hand blurred. The sphere, now sliced into a dozen pieces, clattered harmlessly across the floor.

I blinked.

I really need to stop being surprised by what he can do.

I’d seen a lot of attuned using magically-enhanced swordsmanship over the years. My Father took me to watch tournaments on a regular basis, both ones he competed in and otherwise. I’d seen championship bouts between experienced veterans.

A lot of them had been fast.

Keras was definitely faster. I’d been paying attention this time and I still hadn’t seen him draw his weapon.

I fell back to where Vera was inching forward. “So, uh, if he does decide he doesn’t like us, do you think you could handle him?”

Vera made a half-snort, half-laugh, and slowly shook her head. “No, kid. I’m attuned, too, but I’m not a monster like that. I’m not even specialized in fighting.”

My hands flexed in the air. “Well, at least if he decides to kill us, he’d probably do it quickly.”

“So bleak,” she noted. “Let’s focus on the positives, yeah? Looks like he’s solving the room for us.”

Keras was, in fact, “solving” the room... by slicing the other pendulums in the same way he had the first. When he was done with those, he grabbed the swinging scythe by the bottom, stopping it without difficulty. He yanked downward, breaking the chain that attached it to the ceiling. The blade fell to the floor.

I looked back at Vera. “I’m pretty sure we were supposed to use those pendulums to break through the crystal sections on the walls.”

She waved one hand back and forth dismissively. “It won’t be a problem.” We made it into the room, stepping over the rubble from the destroyed traps, and watched as Keras moved to the red crystal section on the wall.

Another blur in front of him, with no obvious immediate impact this time.

When he kicked forward, a large section of wall fell away. Not just red crystal, the solid stone surrounding it fell away. Enough that a crude doorway had formed in its wake. I couldn’t see anything but blackness beyond it.

He walked through and vanished.

I looked at the other crystal sections on the floor and ceiling. “We could split up from him here.” I patted the dueling cane on my hip. “I think there’s a good chance I could blast through that floor section.”

She shook her head. “As dangerous as Keras is, he’s our best chance of making it through here alive. C’mon. Gotta follow him before the rooms shift.” She grabbed my hand, leading me forward.

While she led me by the hand, I processed her statement. Would the rooms change while we were inside them? I hadn’t seen that happen, but it wasn’t impossible. In fact, with a large enough number of people inside the towers, it seemed likely that it had to happen on occasion.

I’d have to research that more when I got the chance.

Vera vanished the moment she hit the boundary between rooms. It looked as holding hands hadn’t caused me to be included in the teleportation effect. I briefly wondered how Keras and the kid he was carrying had been affected, since they had appeared to vanish together. Was it based on consciousness? Or maybe proximity?Either way, I was alone amid the shattered traps. Another window to break off from the group if I wanted to.

Vera had warned me about the shifting rooms, but I figured I could spare a few seconds to try to get some more information. I hastily pulled the book out of my backpack. I probably wasn’t going to get another chance at this.

You are in one of the tower’s holding chambers. Do not interact with the prisoners. Leave immediately. The people contained within the cells are not to be trusted.

I flipped to the next page.

That was a mistake.

You are risking a great deal, Corin, and I will not be able to protect you if you continue down this path.

No one is placed in a chamber like that one without a good reason.

And the next.

You are in the Room of Arcs, or what remains of it. You see now the power of one of the people you have freed. Recapturing them would be beyond your present abilities. Your best hope is to escape them.

That was not reassuring. I wrote a brief reply...

Thank you. Why are you helping me?...and slammed the book shut. I would read more when time permitted. I stepped into the next room.

I arrived in what looked more like a noble’s manor than another chamber of the tower. The walls were painted white and adorned with paintings and hanging weapons. At roughly equal intervals between the paintings were standing suits of armor with intricate etchings of silver and gold.

Three crystal chandeliers hung from a ceiling high above, each with a differently colored central crystal that bathed a section of the room with light. The way the lights overlapped made the room an effect that I imagined looked something like a rainbow. I wasn’t sure because I’d never actually seen a rainbow, but I understood the concept.

Pretty.

It was a fleeting thought, and one that was unusual for me, but the mixtures of lights pleased me in a visceral way. I shook my head to dismiss the thought. I had more important things to be thinking about.

I was standing on a plush red carpet, which covered a path with three branches. The left and right paths led to identical double-doors, tall and wooden. The central path led up a carpeted stairway.

The central chamber was huge. I was probably a hundred feet from the stairway or either of the other exits. Keras stood at the base of the stairs in a low stance, his hand on the hilt of his weapon. The unconscious boy was lying nearby. Four tall pillars reached toward the ceiling, and Vera was currently taking cover behind one of them.

I could see why. We were not alone.

At the top of the stairs was a figure in golden armor. He was at least seven feet tall, a crystalline sword held in his right hand. Feathered wings stretched from his back, flexing in the air, spanning a width greater than the figure’s height. A visible aura of scintillating light emanated from his body. His blonde hair was cut in a short military style, his face perfectly a sculpted image of masculine valor.

Katashi, the Visage of Valor, barred our path.

It could have been a trick. An illusion, a shape-shifting monster, a simulacrum. It didn’t matter. I wasn’t willing to risk confronting even the shadow of a god. I rushed to the same pillar Vera was standing behind.

“Might want to find a different spot, kid. We’re kind of making ourselves a target if we’re in the same place.”

Right. I’d just go right back out into the open... “Uh, maybe in a minute.” Maybe not. “What’d I miss?”

“Oh, you know, just a visage of the goddess appearing in a flash of fire and thunder. Nothing big.” Her voice was tense, despite the levity of her words.

“Any idea—”

The visage took a step forward. I felt the entire room vibrate as he moved. His presence hung like a shroud in the air, pushing me down and forcing the breath from my lungs. Vera and I braced ourselves against the nearby pillar.

Keras remained standing with no apparent difficulty, raising a hand to scratch his chin. “I would appreciate it if you’d stop that.”

“You are not welcome here, interloper.” Katashi waved his right hand toward Keras. I was barely able to discern the blur that appeared in the air as he made the gesture. Keras flew backward like he’d been hit by a train, slamming into one of the support pillars with an audible crack, and falling to the floor. I winced at the impact.

Keras picked himself up, dusting off his coat. It was only as he stepped forward that I saw thick cracks along the surface of the pillar where he’d struck.

How the...?A collision with enough force to crack a pillar should have shattered a human’s bones into mush. I briefly considered the possibility that Keras wassome sort of artificial construct made of a substance harder than stone, but he moved too quickly and smoothly for that explanation to be likely. Maybe he was protected by some sort of barrier...but that didn’t explain the damage to the pillar itself. Did he have some method of manipulating kinetic energy? I’d never heard of an attunement for that, but it wasn’t impossible.

I turned my head toward Vera. “You wouldn’t happen to have any way of protecting us, would you?”

She snorted. “Duck and hide, kid. Duck and hide.” I ducked and hid.

Meanwhile, the visage had tilted his head to the side, confusion on his face. “How do you remain unharmed?”

Keras raised his gaze from his clothing to the visage before him. “Trade secret,” he replied. There was a moment of pause before he spoke again. “Are we done now?” His voice was exasperated. “Can we have a conversation?”

The visage stood a little taller, his expression dark. “Talk.”

“Thank you,” Keras said. “You are one of the ones they call visages, correct?”

Katashi gave the slightest nod. “Katashi.”

“They’ve been calling me Keras here. Does your goddess hear what you hear? Does she see what you see?”

The visage turned his head to the side. “I have no reason to answer that.”

Keras frowned. “I mean you and your people no harm. I was hoping to get a message through to your goddess.”

Katashi made a broad gesture, indicating the room. “You tear away pieces of a sacred place, then seek to speak to the goddess? Your insolence is astounding.”

“Was that a problem?” Keras scratched the back of his head, looking sheepish. “I was told that we could make the way up the tower any way we wanted.”

“Cutting through the walls to make your own entrances and exits is not a respectful method, outsider.”

They were talking now, which was good, and the pressure from Katashi’s...whatever he was doing...seemed to have lessened. I turned my eyes to the unconscious boy, still at the base of the stairs. If they resumed fighting, which seemed likely, he was extraordinarily vulnerable.

Speaking up now, with tensions high, was probably a terrible move. I didn’t really know what I was getting into here. Katashi kept calling Keras an interloper, and I wasn’t quite sure what that implied. Someone from outside the city? Or, thinking bigger, maybe someone from outside the continent? The latter was supposed to be impossible, given the continent-wide barrier that wehad in place, but people didn’t usually break stone pillars when they collided, either.

Terrible move or not, it was probably my best chance of keeping that poor kid alive.

I stepped out from around the pillar, lowering my head to the carpet in supplication. It was a familiar gesture, one I’d done at shrines to the goddess a thousand times as a youth, though I’d fallen out of practice since Tristan’s disappearance. I’d never prayed directly to a visage, of course. I’d never seen a visage before, not even from a distance.

“Great Visage of Selys, forgive me for my insolence in speaking to you without permission. I was amidst my Judgment when I stumbled on these people, and beg your leave to take the unconscious child and continue in my tests.”

Katashi turned to me. I kept my eyes low, not daring to meet his gaze. “Your respect is a credit to your bloodline, scion of House Cadence. I will consider your request. Assist me and you may earn my blessing.”

I pressed my head further into the carpet. “Thank you, Great Visage. How may I assist you?”

I felt the pressure lift from my shoulders. Breath swam into my lungs. I lifted my head, noting that Katashi had turned back toward Keras.

The visage pointed at Keras. “Do not allow this one to escape.”

Oh, curse it all.

The last thing I wanted was to get involved in a battle between these two, at least one of which literally had deific levels of power.

Nevertheless, if I didn’t act at all, now I risked antagonizing the visage.

That couldn’t possibly end well.

I was shaking as I stood up, unclipping the dueling cane from my belt. I looked at Vera. She shook her head at me vehemently.

I sighed, walking to take a position near the doorway on the left side of the room. I chose that exit because it was the furthest from where the combatants stood, meaning that it was the spot where I was least likely to be a victim of collateral damage. I tried to position myself in alignment with one of the pillars, so that it could also serve as a shield.

If Keras came for me, I didn’t like my odds of being able to stop him. I thought of nearby door with wistful longing, but I didn’t even know if I could open it. It wasn’t like I could check without enraging the visage.

I could have sided with Keras, of course. He had survived Katashi’s opening moves. There was a possibility he had the upper hand in this conflict. But both my gut and my common sense told me that was unlikely.

Keras was terrifyingly strong, one of a dozen people on the continent whomight have had more than two attunements.

The visage, though... He’d have all of them, including some that no human had access to. Scholars argued about how many total attunements existed, but the best guess was at least fifty, each providing a broad variety of abilities associated with a particular theme. Their benefits were cumulative, so someone with two defensive attunements would be extraordinarily resilient.

With fifty attunements? Well, I mentioned the broken Kingdom of Feria before. Its destruction had taken the Visage of Law less than a day.

The Visage of Valor gave me a nod, apparently approving of my position. There was still another exit to block, but Vera wasn’t moving for it. She stayed behind the pillar, giving herself as much cover as possible. Her eyes were scanning everywhere, searching for openings. Opportunities.

“I would prefer not to bring other people into this.” Keras folded his arms. “And, moreover, I would rather not fight at all.”

It was somewhat endearing that Keras was still trying to reach a diplomatic solution, even if it probably was just to save his hide. I felt bad about standing in his way. It was a small betrayal, even if it was mostly symbolic.

“Sorry,” I mumbled.

I think he heard me. I hoped he did.

Katashi lowered his weapon, shaking his head. “Though it may seem contrary to my title, I do not relish battle. Nevertheless, you are a threat to the residents of this tower, and I cannot permit that. If it is any consolation, I will make your end quick.”

Keras turned his head down, shaking slightly. It took me a few seconds to realize that he was laughing. As he looked upward, a grin spread across his face.

“It never can be easy, can it?” Keras turned his head toward where Vera still hid behind the pillar. “Get the kid out of the way before we start this.”

Vera began to move, but Katashi spoke a single word. “No.”

No?Why wouldn’t Katashi want the kid to be clear of the battlefield?I raised the dueling cane, my hand still aching from my earlier uses of the weapon pulling mana through my veins. I was no longer pointing it toward Keras.

I hoped I wouldn’t have to use it. Several things happened at once.

Vera broke from cover, rushing toward the fallen child.

Katashi raised his left hand with his palm forward, golden light forming inhis grasp. His palm was pointed at Vera.

Keras moved. He was a blur, impossible for my ordinary eyes to discern. When a twisting helix of light ripped forward from Katashi’s hand, Keras appeared in front of Vera, deflecting the blast with a casual swipe of his own left hand.

“Go.”

Vera grabbed the child and lifted him over her shoulder, moving toward me with almost painful slowness.

Katashi’s jaw tightened. “I did not permit—”

Keras was next to him in an instant, smashing a fist into the visage’s armored chest. I saw a blast of concussive force on the impact, a spherical wave of disruption.

Katashi took a single step back at the impact, his expression unchanged.

Keras flickered back just in time to avoid a slash from the visage’s crystalline blade.

When Keras reappeared, I realized the left sleeve of his coat had been burned away where the blast of light had connected. The skin beneath was burned and cracked.

He might be faster and stronger than me, but Keras isn’t invincible. This isn’t an even fight. It’s not even close.

What could I do to alter the outcome?I didn’t even know what they were fighting about, let alone their strengths and weaknesses. If a visage of the goddess said someone needed to die, conventional wisdom said that they needed to die.

But conventional wisdom had also abandoned my brother in this same tower. Conventional wisdom and I hadn’t been on speaking terms since then.

That single punch from Keras looked like it had carried more force than anything I could put out from my dueling cane and it had barely affected the visage. I knew how to pour additional mana into a burst, but I doubted I’d have an impact. Katashi fought armies, some of which contained attuned.

A cheap shot to the head? The lack of armor might have made a difference, but I couldn’t count on my ability to land the shot.

What else did I have at my disposal?I shrugged off my backpack and found the book.

By the time I looked back, Katashi was surrounded by a flickering aura of burning light. He pointed his crystalline weapon at Vera. I could see the fiery aura gather in his left hand, then flow through his body, glowing brighter until it gathered in his sword, turning the blade white.

“This must be.” There was no inflection in his words.

Vera wasn’t moving fast enough to avoid the helix of incendiary light thatemerged from the blade.

Keras blurred again. A streak of silver severed the air, splitting the bolt of light in twain. The deflected energy smashed into the floor, leaving long cracks in the marble.

The swordsman stood a little straighter, his expression grim. The sword he held was long enough to be used in two hands, but he held it with his right with no sign of effort. The silvery blade had only a slim flat surface toward the center, the outer portions angled into viciously sharp edges. A subtle white glow flowed within the blade, a clear sign of an enchantment.

I doubted it would be enough.

I set my dueling cane down, letting Vera approach while I grabbed my quill and flipped through the book to the end.

You have reached the entrance to the second floor of the tower.

You must flee. The visage will not permit you to leave with the prisoners.

You don’t stand a chance.

You’re not reading this right now, but if you do... Please, leave. Please. While you can.

That ink was dry, but new writing appeared as I watched. The visage will not be distracted for long. You must leave. I raised the quill to write.

You’re clearly watching here. Can you help us?No words appeared in the seconds that followed.

Keras shrugged off his coat, revealing a black vest crossed with leather straps. Six sheathed knives were attached to the straps on his back. He kicked his coat to the side, drawing one of the knives with his left hand.

Katashi remained at the top of the stairway, turning his gaze toward Keras and maintaining an impassive expression. He jammed his crystalline sword into the stone floor, bringing his hands in front of him. Globes of flame appeared in the air around him, one after another, spinning and rotating.

Keras flipped the knife in his hand and hurled it straight at the visage’s face.

The visage didn’t even move. The knife impacted an invisible barrier and clattered harmlessly to the ground.

Keras gave the slightest frown.

The burning orbs did move. They weren’t as quick as the lightning, moving only at the speed of a thrown ball. But there were eight of them... and they had different targets.

Seeing Keras’ expression sink, I knew that he couldn’t stop them all. Vera had almost reached me.

The dueling cane was in my hand before I processed what I was doing. Two clicks in rapid succession. I felt the mana surge through my chest, burning hotter than it ever had.

I blew the two closest spheres of flame out of the air, dispersing them with kinetic force. Keras moved quickly enough to slash five of the others, successfully deflecting the last of the projectiles aimed for Keras and the child.

The last sphere struck him in the back.

The force of the impact barely staggered him, but his vest ignited instantly. He shivered for a moment, wincing, and reached toward his back with his left hand.

The flames pulled away, gathering in his hand.

A wave of his hand across the blade of his sword. The flames swept across the weapon, the weapon’s edges shifting to glow crimson.

I could see the burned skin across his back as he rushed toward the stairs.

He was still fast — faster than anyone I’d seen before.

But I could see him. He was slowing down, the wounds weighing on him more than his expression showed.

I looked back at the book.

I will try, child. I will try. You must leave the room.

He didn’t have to tell me twice. “Vera, we need to go.”

Vera gave me a curt nod, shifting the burden on her back. The boy was nearly as tall as she was; I was surprised she could carry him at all.

I flipped the book and quill into the pack. Katashi turned his head. He’d heard me, but Keras had nearly flown up the stairs. He didn’t have time to intervene.

The door behind me opened. Vera pushed through. I gave a last look toward Keras.

He’d reached the top of the stairs. He waved his left hand, and the five remaining daggers slipped out of their scabbards, floating in the air behind him. As I watched, their blades extended as they hovered in formation. Theywere wings of steel.

He gripped the hilt of his weapon with two hands, the blade still glowing with inner light.

I took a deep breath, retrieving my backpack as the swordsmen began to circle each other, and I fled the room.

