CHAPTER V — ORIENTATION

I had a couple weeks between earning my attunement and the start of the academic year, and I intended to make good use of them.

My first matter of business was trying to figure out how to use my attunement. We had a number of books on attunements in the library. Unfortunately, we didn’t have many on enchanting. To the best of my knowledge, I was the first Enchanter in the family. That wasn’t exactly an honor. We’d made our family name in battle, not as crafters or merchants.

From what I could glean from the more general texts on attunements, most people could use their attunements intuitively. If I was a Shaper or an Elementalist, I could already be hurling bolts of raw mana. According to a book called Styles of Spellcasting, the methodology would depend on where I received my mark.

Hand marks are the most common, which begat our tradition of wearing gloves to hide them. Those attuned with hand marks excel at accurately directing spells at distant targets.

Leg marks allow for instantaneous delivery of powerful spells through physical contact. They are the favored marks for Guardians and other physically adept attunements.

Heart marks can channel mana through the entire body before dispersing it through a spell. This requires intense focus and slows the casting of the spell, but increases its intensity.

Lung marks allow the attuned to fill the air with mana as they speak the words of an incantation, directing their spells across a broad area. They are exceptional in large confrontations, such as siege warfare.

Finally, mind marks enhance the attuned’s ability to sense and manipulate the mana inside their body. This can potentially allow mind-marked toconstruct spells inside their own bodies purely through focusing their minds. This is an excellent attunement location for Menders, who can heal themselves simply through concentration, as well as shadows, who can use it to cast illusions without any warning.

That description made my own mind mark sound pretty interesting, until I read a bit further and found out that Enchanters could only enchant items, not people.

That was disappointing. I’d been looking forward to permanently enhancing myself somehow. Maybe an enchanting-specific book would give me a better idea of what I could do.

I did pick up a few more things about enchanting from the few books we had, but not enough that I could actually practice it at home. They were more about theory and history, written mostly for non-Enchanters who wanted to learn about the basic concepts. That was frustrating — whenever I walked by Sera’s room, I could hear her practicing some kind of spell incantations, presumably already mastering her Summoner abilities.

Occasionally, I’d even see an icy glow emanating from her room or see water dripping down the side of her door.

Aside from studying my attunement without success, I had another thing to research: the symbol on the glove I’d found on the body in the prison. That, fortunately, was simple enough. We had a book on heraldry, and it was one of the first entries. House Cornell.

I wrote them a letter explaining what I’d found, apologized for my failure to save their child, and enclosed the glove.

I left the letter anonymous and paid a courier to deliver it. I gave the courier explicit instructions not to identify me as the sender.

It was a coward’s approach, and I knew that. They would have questions. Perhaps they’d be angry at me for coming back alive when their child had not. Maybe they’d want to thank me for giving them some closure.

Maybe if my mother had received a letter like that one about Tristan, she’d have stayed with my father. Or maybe it would have just made things worse.

All I knew was that the uncertainty of Tristan’s fate had eaten me inside for years, and I wouldn’t condemn another family to that same condition if I could avoid it.

Maybe I was a coward, but a coward’s gift was better than no gift at all.

***Before I left on the train to the Lorian Heights academy, I spent one last morning sitting in a grassy field where Tristan and I used to play, and Iremembered.

He was tall. So much taller than I was. Taller than our father, even at fourteen. At nine, I hadn’t quite hit my growth spurt yet.

With his long, thin limbs, climbing the tree must have seemed like a trivial effort.

To me, it was an exercise in terror just to scramble up to the lowest branches.

“C’mon!”

I looked around uncertainly. Inside the house, Sera was playing a game of Valor against Father again. Lately, she was even starting to win a few rounds here and there.

Mother was out on business again, and our other retainers were all inside, tending to various chores.

There was no one nearby to catch me if I fell.

Tristan was already a good ten feet above me. High enough that looking up at him made me feel sick. Could I survive a fall from that height? Maybe hitting the branches on the way down would slow me enough that I’d just crack some bones open.

But he smiled brightly at me, encouraging as he always had been, and I fought past the fear.

My arm muscles were pretty strong for my age. Even then, I’d spent a lot of time practicing with weapons. Mostly the traditional ones like sword and spear. I didn’t have enough mana at that point to use a dueling cane with any degree of seriousness.

So, pulling myself up wasn’t a problem; it was just a matter of being able to reach a good branch in the first place.

Tristan waited for me as I inched, calculated, and feared. And finally, I reached... and pulled my way up to the next section of the tree. And the next. My fear grew with every inch, but he bolstered me with encouragement.

“You can do it!” and “Don’t be afraid!” echoed in my mind.

I was just one section below him. I judged the distance. “I can’t make it.

It’s too far! I’m not tall enough to reach the branch.”

He laughed and reached down with a hand. “Then I’ll help you!”

I reached up to take his hand. With Tristan’s help, maybe I could reach — Tristan leaned forward too far. His hand brushed against mine as he fell.

I winced, blinking away the memory. Tristan had been fine. He’d laughed when I’d finally made it back down the tree, fighting fear to scale my way down far faster than I’d gone up. The branches had bloodied him, but he’dmade it through the fall without any permanent damage.

But I remembered that he’d fallen trying to help me, and that was Tristan to his core. He was always trying to lift me up, even at his own expense.

After so many years of Tristan looking out for me, it was long past time I did the same for him. I knew that I wouldn’t be going back into the tower immediately, of course. Attempting to climb the tower was far more dangerous than simply going through a Judgment, and what I’d seen inside had made it abundantly clear that I was not prepared for the true dangers of the tower yet.

So, I’d need to be patient. I’d practice. I’d master my attunement, grow strong enough to survive.

But when I was strong enough, I’d reach for that highest branch.

I hoped that Tristan could keep waiting for me, just a little bit longer.

***Riding on the train was a considerably different experience with Sera sitting next to me.

It wasn’t the first time we had traveled together; we had rarely been apart as children. Three years apart had changed both of us, however, and my father’s plans — maybe our father’s plans — had been deliberately formulated to create a degree of tension between us.

I wasn’t going to let things stand that way.

When we’d first left the station, she’d sat with perfect poise, looking out the window and waving at the house servants that stood at the station. The perfect image of a young noblewoman already missing her family and friends. Within minutes, she’d shifted in her seat into something resembling a ball,curled around a book.

This was the Sera that I remembered. Someone I could work with.

I pulled out a book of my own. Trials of Judgment, the book from inside the tower.

Then, flipping to a blank page, I removed the quill and inkwell from my backpack.

I caught her eye flickering toward me, curious. She caught my eye catching her eye. I caught her eye catching my eye... you get the idea. We exchanged glances, saying nothing.

I began to write.

Oh, Great Mysterious Book Entity, Voice of the Tower, etc. etc.

Are you receiving this message? I’m not sure if this thing works, now that I’m outside the tower.

Really, I’m not sure if the book itself was ever significant or if you werejust using it as a medium to communicate with me.

Please clarify.

Yours in an unspecified amount of indentured service, CorinI smirked, waiting and watching for a few minutes. In spite of my brilliance, there was no reply.

I sealed the ink container and stashed it, the quill, and the book back in my bag.

Sera glanced at me again as I finished putting the book away. “Magic book,” I said simply.

I knew of no reasonable creature who would not respond to a nonchalant declaration like, “Magic book.” Sera was a complex companion, I knew, but eminently reasonable when such hooks were presented.

Her eyebrow raised accommodatingly, and, for emphasis, she added, “Define magic book.”

I shrugged, stretching. “Oh, you know, just your typical book connected to a nigh-omniscient spiritual entity contained within the Serpent Spire. What are you reading?”

“Hartigan’s Compiled Treatises on Advanced Binding Theory.” She retrieved a bookmark from her bag, set it to mark her progress and closed the tome. “Nothing that would be applicable studies. It’s for Summoners.”

I nodded sagely. “Studying early? Well, I certainly wouldn’t want to interrupt that with something as uninteresting as—”

She uncoiled herself and leaned in closer. “No need to be so blithely manipulative, Corin. You’ve got my attention. Now, what percentage of that was actually true?”

I looked upward, and then tilted my face down, giving an exaggerated look of concentration. “Eighty... no, seventy nine point nine percent?”

She laughed obligingly, grabbing toward the back. “Okay, come on, show me.”

I showed her the book, and she sat a little closer while I went over each of the pages, telling her bits of the story that went along with each.

I stopped just before the prison, after the book told me that, “You shouldn’t have done that.” It was a good place to hook her interest, and beyond that, I was pretty sure I shouldn’t be sharing the incidents with the prison and beyond — and certainly not in public.

I really wanted to tell her about Keras fighting Katashi. The idea that there was a presumably mortal swordsman that could even hold a visage at bay was almost unthinkable. I’d been raised to believe the visages were unstoppableforces of nature. Everyone had.

Was Keras an exception? Was he truly that powerful? Or was he another visage himself?Wydd, the Visage of Forbidden Knowledge, was known to take on many forms depending on her current whim. Maybe Keras being another visage was a simpler answer than assuming he was a human with some kind of unknown power source.

But even if it was a simpler answer, I didn’t know if it was a better one. Two visages fighting each other was potentially more worrisome than a human managing to put up a fight. Some kind of in-fighting among our pantheon could not possibly be a good thing — and it probably wasn’t something a mere mortal should know about.

And Katashi knew that I’d seen the fight.

Even if he didn’t take direct action against me, there was a good chance I’d be in danger if I went back to the tower before figuring this situation out. And there was a chance he would do something, even if it wasn’t personally. Every visage had human agents. Priests, servants, that sort of thing.

Just one more thing for me to worry about.

I also wanted to tell Sera about the prison, both out of excitement and because I wanted to get her insight. I liked to plan for every contingency, but Sera had always been great at breaking down a situation into component parts and analyzing them. Maybe she would pick up on hints that I hadn’t, and I needed all the information I could so that I’d be better prepared to rescue Tristan when I was ready to climb the tower.

In spite of my desires, though, I needed to play it safe. The Voice had been clear that I wasn’t allowed to tell anyone else about the situation. It had probably saved my life by giving me a quick way out of the tower, so I owed it at least a bit of consideration. I’d still probably tell Sera eventually, but I wanted to see what this Lyras Orden had to say before I took any further actions.

Instead, I asked her how she would have handled the same tests, and we discussed and debated alternate strategies for each room for hours.

By the end of the trip, we might have almost been friends again.

***Sera and I stood together on a broad grassy field. We were joined by a mere eight thousand other students, mostly other applicants who had survived a trip through the tower. There would be a few others. Foreign students with other attunements. A scattered few students who hadn’t taken their Judgments yet and were here to prepare.

The sea of teenagers stared at a raised stone platform where several adultsin the pristine white uniforms of the Valian military stood. We’d be hearing their commencement speeches shortly.

In the meantime, Sera and I were scanning the crowd, presumably for similar reasons. I was looking for known quantities such as my few friends, or acquaintances from social gatherings. Allies. Enemies. The crowd was thick enough that I had little success.

I thought I caught a glance of Patrick Wayland, one of my childhood friends. That gave me some conflicted feelings. I hadn’t seen Patrick in years.

Would he think less of me for having a weak attunement?Not everyone treated non-combat attunements as inferior, but it was hardly an uncommon attitude. Valia’s military was our pride, and being able to stand on the front lines and fight with magical power was a common childhood dream.

It had never been my dream, but I’d never been great at fitting society’s expectations in general.

Sera and I were both still wearing our backpacks, and I still had the goddess-given saber on my belt. About one in three of the other students was armed. I’d initially expected my weapon to be taken at the academy gates, but the military had a strong presence on the campus, and the gate guards didn’t seem the least bit bothered by the sword’s presence.

Most of the other students didn’t seem to have backpacks, although I spotted a few in the crowd. Maybe the majority of students had already found their dormitories — Sera and I had just barely arrived in time for the commencement speech.

“Students, welcome.” The sound was clear and crisp, like it was coming from right next to me, but I could see the speaker at the center of the podium. He was a tall, uniformed man with rich brown skin and a marvelous jagged scar across his forehead. It made him look ferocious. I was mildly envious.

“I’m Lieutenant Commander Jack Bennet, the vice chancellor of this institution. First, I’d like to congratulate you on getting to this point. You’ve shown a degree of worth in the eyes of the goddess to make it this far, but your training is just beginning. I’ll be keeping a close eye on you throughout the years to come, helping to hone you into the fine generation of soldiers that you have the potential to become. The final arbiter of your success, however, is the chancellor.” He turned to his right, gesturing at a short, portly woman in a business coat and trousers.

Not military. Interesting.

“Chancellor Wallace will explain the rest.”

A brief introduction. Good. I can’t stand long speeches. The other students in the crowd had gone silent, turning their eyes to the stand.

The vice chancellor stepped away from the podium, allowing Chancellor Wallace to approach.

It occurred to me that no one was applauding. Were we supposed to cheer or clap? I wasn’t really sure.

“Good morning, students, and thank you for the introduction, Commander Bennet.” She nodded to the vice chancellor, and then looked back to the crowd. “My, there are a lot of you this year. A record number, in fact. That’s a good sign, a sign of the goddess watching over us. She seems to expect great things of you, and so will I. Before we continue, let us say a few words in her praise. Please join me in the Hymn of Accord.”

I suppressed the urge to roll my eyes, mouthing the words as others droned one of the many hymns that had been scratched into our brains since childhood.

Goddess great, Goddess high,Watching from the distant sky, Give us peace,Give us strength, Watch us live, Watch us fly.

I’d always thought “die” would have more symmetry in the last line, but when I’d brought it up to my parents, they’d accused me of being needlessly fatalistic.

There was a moment of silence as we finished the awkward recitation, then the chancellor continued her speech.

“Very good. Now, onto a bit more about the school. First and foremost, the role of this university is to prepare you for the dangers you will be facing in the future. A key component of this is learning proper discipline.”

Chancellor Wallace made a broad gesture to encompass the entirety of the gathered student base. “This year, I am not only welcoming the next generation of promising candidates from our own nation, but a number of transfer students from our friends and allies in other nations. I would like to be among the first to welcome you all to Valia. And I would also like to assure you that this academy holds all students to equal standards; there will be no favoritism toward local students.”

The chancellor’s eyes narrowed as she glanced around. “I would also like to remind our local students that these transfer students are our honored guests, and they must be treated with the utmost civility. Actions taken against other students based on their home nation will not be tolerated. Outright hostility toward our guests will result in punishment, up to andincluding expulsion. I would like to make absolutely certain this is clear. If you understand me, reply, ‘Yes, ma’am.’”

There was an awkward and out of sync reply of “Yes, ma’am,” from the audience.

“I couldn’t hear you all. Repeat after me. ‘Yes, ma’am. ’” We did a little better job at replying in sync that time.

I could see the reasoning behind introducing this policy so early. My father had told me a story about an incident last year where an Edrian student had been beaten half to death after a class where he’d made a remark about how Edria had “won the war” against Valia years ago.

When my father had explained it, he’d said the kid had “gotten what he’d deserved” for speaking against our noble nation.

I felt sick just remembering the talk. Who could justify beating a student just for stating an opposing viewpoint?Never mind the fact that Edria more or less had won the war, even if they hadn’t conquered us.

I shook my head, pushing the memory out of my mind. I’d do my best to try to be friendly to any Edrian students I encountered. I was pretty confident that the chancellor’s speech wasn’t going to sway many others. The hatred for Edria was too deeply rooted into our culture, even many years after the war.

“Good. There are a number of other rules at this university, each intended to help improve your discipline for your future career. You will find a full list of academy policies among your entry paperwork.”

The chancellor took a breath and then continued.

“As this is your first year at Lorian Heights, each of you will be assigned to one of six divisions based on your attunement. Your division will determine the types of training and instruction you’ll be given, as well as your primary instructor and uniform.”

Divisions? Interesting, I hadn’t heard about this. Sera and I will probably be split up... That could be good or bad.

“Each division will have objectives throughout the year. Completing these objectives will earn points, both for individuals and for their divisions. Each student has a minimum requirement to earn five hundred points to continue to the second year at the academy.”

“Candidates will enter their second year retaining their scores from the first year, and graduates with high scores will enter their military service at a higher rank. A large part of your score is derived from the performance of your division, and thus, it behooves you to work together with your classmates.”

Chancellor Wallace gestured to a man in a gray suit, with a sharp beardand salt and pepper hair. He stepped up to the front of the platform, coming in clear sight, but not near the podium. “Tiger Division specializes in offensive combat. Students with the Elementalist Attunement will be assigned to him. Professor Ceridan will be your supervisor.”

Next, she waved to a woman in a black suit with perfectly straight, shoulder-length black hair. “Professor Orden will be supervising Serpent Division, which specializes in reconnaissance. Students with the Shadow and Diviner Attunements will report to her.”

Professor Orden? Lyras Orden, I presume. I’ll need to talk to her. A shame I’m not in her division; it sounds interesting, and being placed with her would be convenient.

Chancellor Wallace pointed to a man in a purple suit, with a dueling cane and carefully sculpted eyebrows. “Students with the Shaper Attunement will report to Lord Teft and focus their studies on personal combat. He oversees Hydra Division.”

I started hearing students leaning over and whispering to each other, discussing their division assignments, but Sera and I remained quiet. Focused. Neither of us had been assigned yet.

I recognized the next person who stepped forward. She was the teacher who’d helped me with my paperwork after I’d first earned my attunement. “Phoenix Division provides valuable support both on and off the battlefield. Students with the Mender and Enchanter Attunements will report to Professor Edlyn.”

Welp, stuck with the healers. I’m pretty much doomed to obscurity.

Sera must have seen my expression. She gave me a condescending look and a pat on the arm.

The chancellor beckoned to a thin man in a dark blue military uniform, similar to the one the vice chancellor wore. “Lieutenant Talon will oversee Tortoise Division. Tortoise Division focuses on defensive combat and battlefield control. Summoners and Guardians will report to this division.”

“Transfer students with attunements from the other towers will be assigned an appropriate division for their specialization. For example, Soulblades will be assigned to Tortoise Division due to sharing similar combat capabilities to Summoners.”

Huh. I’d known we had some foreign students, but I hadn’t really considered that they might have taken their Judgments at other towers and earned different attunements. It’d be interesting to see what kind of other attunements were out there.

“Finally, there’s Spider Division. You already know if you’re in Spider Division. As the name implies, Spider Division is infiltrators and saboteurs —and that’s exactly what they’ll be doing within all of your other divisions.” I heard a collective groan from the students.

“Listen closely!” Chancellor Wallace was surprisingly sharp, and the crowd was silenced. “This is one of the most important parts of your first year of training. Each of you will have specific opportunities throughout the year to report someone you believe to belong to Spider Division and any supporting evidence.”

“Correctly identifying an individual Spider can yield a reward of up to one hundred points. However, if your entire division fails to identify even a single member of Spider Division by the end of the year, each division member will lose two hundred and fifty points. And incorrectly identifying someone as a Spider will result in a loss of up to one hundred points.”

Well, that last part means I can’t just write down everyone I can think of.

I’ll have to keep thinking about this, maybe trade some information.

I wonder if the Spiders lose points if they’re identified? Probably, but if not, maybe I could make an offer to get one of them to come forward?She smiled. “People for Spider Division were selected from all possible attunements, and thus, you cannot identify them that way. Attempting to discover the spies in your midst should be a valuable exercise.”

Chancellor Wallace folded her hands on the podium. “I’m sure you’re eager to meet your classmates. Thus, we’ll be concluding this ceremony. You will find your schedules within your orientation packets, but you’ll need to head to the dispensary to pick up your uniforms and shield sigils. Good luck... and keep your eyes wide open.”

***Our first order of business was picking up our uniforms, so Sera and I headed toward the dispensary.

“So, who do you think we’ll run into first?” Sera nudged me. I hadn’t really thought about it. “I’m... not sure?”

She grinned. “I bet a bunch of our friends are here. I know Patrick and Roland passed the tests. Maybe we’ll get in some of their classes!”

Hrm. Maybe that really was Patrick I saw earlier.

“Yeah,” I said absently. “That’d be nice.”

Sera rolled her eyes. “Please, restrain your enthusiasm, I can’t take the intensity.”

I tilted my head at her. “Sorry, Sera. You’ve gotta keep in mind that I haven’t seen any of these people in years... I didn’t exactly keep in touch. I don’t know if Patrick will even remember me.”

“Oh, don’t be so dramatic. The two of you were practically brothers when you were little. Patrick still talks about you all the time. He’s excited to seeyou, even if you’re not. Try to look a little happier when you talk to him, for his sake?”

I grimaced, but I nodded in agreement. “I’ll try.”

She was wrong about one thing, though. I only had one brother, and I’d lost him. Patrick, as much as I’d enjoyed spending time with him, was just a friend.

That said...

She was absolutely right that I was being needlessly grim. I needed to at least try to cheer up a little. Being a walking rainstorm wasn’t doing a service to anyone.

I took a deep breath, trying to clear my head. “How are you doing? Are you happy to have an attunement?”

She raised an eyebrow at me. “Uh, yeah, obviously. And my attunement is kind of amazing, too. Sorry you got stuck with that one... I know it wasn’t what you wanted.”

“Eh, I’ll probably get used to it.” I doubted that, but I was not going to let myself get dragged down into another depressive spiral. “Any idea what attunements our friends got?”

Saying the word “friends” was a little strange. I hadn’t seen them in so long, I didn’t know if I had that right.

“Oh, I didn’t ask, but I’m sure we’ll find out soon enough.” She stopped and pointed a hand. “Hey, I think that’s the dispensary over there.”

We headed over, only to find a line leading out the door. Of course there was a line.

We kept up the small talk as we waited. I admit, I felt a little better from it. It was good having a peer to talk to after such a long period of time. I still wasn’t sure if I was ready to face my old friends, but Sera’s presence was growing on me.

After we finally made our way inside, we got marched into separate fitting rooms, where university staff took our measurements.

The tailor gave me a speech he’d obviously given a hundred times. “You’re a size medium. All uniforms are white, but since you’re inPhoenix Division, yours will have red accents. You get two uniforms. You will need to wear them during all classes and testing sessions. Civilian clothes are permitted during other activities. Keep your uniform immaculate. There are several cleaning facilities on campus, which you can locate on your map.” He set aside two folded uniforms, then went into a cabinet and retrieved a silver pin with a school insignia about the size of a coin. “Pin this to your uniform before every class and test. Do not forget this, it is absolutely mandatory. The shield sigil gives you basic protection against spells — this isboth to handle accidents and to assist you in classes that involve combat exercises.”

The tailor handed me the pin. “You will need to recharge the shield sigil every week, as well as before any class that actively involves combat. You will not be permitted to attend class without a pin, and failing to wear your pin more than once can result in disciplinary action, up to and including expulsion. The same is true for failing to properly recharge your pin. As an Enchanter, you will learn how to recharge the pin yourself, but for the time being you may have your pin recharged at the Divinatory.”

I nodded and accepted the pin.

“Sign here for your two uniforms and the shield sigil.”

I signed the paperwork, accepted the bundle of uniforms, and then went to meet Sera outside.

***Sera and I would be staying in different dorms. I was in the cleverly named “Phoenix Male, Building #27”, and she was in the equally scintillating “Tortoise Female, Building #14”, but they were both in the same general direction, so we walked together.

She gave me an appraising look. “Odds that Spider Division is real?”

I shrugged, briefly debating telling her that I was in Spider Division. Which, of course, I wasn’t. “After some thought, I’d put it somewhere between zero and, hrm, one hundred percent. Plus or minus a bit.”

She rolled her eyes. “It’s probably just a mind game. They want us on edge.”

“I’m not so certain about that. Maybe they’re training some people for covert operations? This is supposed to be a military sponsored school.”

Sera raised her hand to brush a strand of hair out of her eyes. “Could be, or maybe they just really wanted one division per giant tower monster.”

I snickered. She had a point. “It’s a useful mnemonic device. Everyone knows the god beasts, so you’re not going to forget the division names easily.”

“I suppose. I just feel like they’re doing the Spider thing to distract us from something else — maybe a more subtle test.”

I chuckled. “You’ve got the family paranoia, at least.” “I’ll try to take that as a compliment.”

“You always were good at pretending.”

***We finished our speculative banter and arrived at her dorm, parting ways there. It only took a few more minutes to find my own building, virtually identical to the one she was staying in. The buildings themselves were threestory structures, and from their rectangular shape and size, I guessed they housed about a dozen rooms on each floor.

Finding my own room was simple enough. I already had the key; it had been delivered to my home a few days before I left, along with my orientation paperwork. I turned it in the lock and examined my new home.

It turned out there wasn’t much to examine.

The room was barely larger than a closet, with a thin bed taking up nearly half the space. The remainder contained a generic wooden desk, a chair, and a cabinet. I found a neat stack of documents on the desk, containing more information about the school and another map of the campus.

The crowded space didn’t bother me as much as it could have. I’d grown up sharing a room with my older brother until his disappearance, so I was used to having limited space to work with. While some nobles lived in opulent manors with dozens of rooms, House Cadence was comparatively small. Our house had risen into the ranks of nobility through exemplary military service, not our money.

I shrugged my backpack off my shoulders, stretching, and locked the door behind me.

Freedom.

I took a breath of the air that belonged only to me, closing my eyes and savoring it.

For the last two weeks, I’d felt unwelcome in my former home. My father’s disapproval had been almost palpable. I’d done my best to avoid him, and I had some good excuses. There was a seemingly endless supply of documents to prepare for attending the academy, and I studied more to learn more about my attunement.

So, what did I do with my first moments of free time? More reading.

This time, something a little more interesting.

I flipped open Trials of Judgment, flipping to the last thing I had written. Still no reply.

Frowning, I set the book aside. I had other reading that I wanted to do.

I dug through my pack, finding a book on runes that I’d borrowed from my father’s library. An Introductory Primer on Empowering Runes by Conrad Lake.

I’d read the beginning before, and I understood the fundamentals.

Enchanters had the ability to permanently infuse objects with power.

To do this, I’d have to start by finding the runes that corresponded to the effects I wanted on the item. After that, I’d inscribe the object with the runes. That was the easy part.

The hard part was finding a power source for each rune. Since I only had an Enchanter attunement, the only mana I had access to was “raw” mana — basic, unfiltered stuff. Most enchantments required specialized types of mana, like fire mana to empower a rune to make a flaming weapon.

There were two main ways of getting the mana I needed to enchant something: either I could find a person who had the right kind of mana and transfer it from them, or I could transfer the mana from an object that contained mana. Like, for example, the crystals sitting in my bag.

I wasn’t reading through the book to figure out what I could do with my crystals. I’d already done that, and come to the conclusion that the few crystals I had weren’t all that useful on their own. Slimes were the weakest monsters in existence and the mana crystals they left behind were raw, the same type I could generate on my own. The barghensi’s crystal was earth mana, which was more useful, but not something I had any use for at the moment.

No, for now, I wasn’t going to make anything. I needed to learn about what I already had.

I unsheathed the sword the Voice of the Tower had given me about half way, examining the shimmering blade and the four runes on the surface. I was careful not to touch my skin to the aura of frost — I didn’t know if it would hurt the wielder or not. That was one of the first things I’d need to figure out.

I found my quill and ink and one of the pieces of orientation paperwork I didn’t care about, drawing the four runes that I’d seen on the surface of the blade. After another moment of thought, I flipped the sword over and checked the other side to see if the etchings matched.

They did. Just four runes, then.

Then, having copied the runes, I searched through the enchanting book to find them. I only found two of the four.

The first was a pretty simple rune, one I’d seen elsewhere: a Rune of Resilience, useful for making an object harder to break.

The second was definitely some kind of Rune of Ice, but it differed from the basic one presented in the book. The shape was similar enough to be clearly related, but the one on the weapon was surrounded by an octagon of intersecting lines, one of which connected with the rune.

I spent some more time searching the book for the other runes, but they were nowhere to be found. The book’s notes on the basic Rune of Ice indicated that items enchanted with it were dangerous to the wielder, so I decided it was best to keep my hands as far away from the aura as possible, at least until I could discern what the more advanced rune meant.

With that established I sheathed the weapon and lay down on my bed,closing my eyes.

I wasn’t going to sleep, not immediately. I needed a few moments just to process my situation.

I didn’t get them, of course. A knock sounded on my door mere instants after my eyes shut.

The knocking paused for a moment, then repeated a few moments later. It was quick, insistent. I sighed, pushing myself from the bed, and opened the door.

A black-clad student was standing outside, his almond-shaped eyes narrowed in scrutiny. He had amber skin, which meant his family was probably from East Edria or Dalenos.

He stared directly at me for a moment, then asked a single question. “Are you a Spider?”

I blinked. “Uh... no?”

He nodded curtly, took the door handle, and shut my door.

I continued to stare at the closed door for the next few seconds.

Well, that was interesting.

Contemplating the encounter, I came to the conclusion that the student was testing for my reaction. I heard another similar knock several moments later... but it wasn’t at the next door down. It was too distant for that. He wasn’t going to every door in sequence — either he had a list of specific people he wanted to check, or he wasn’t going in order because he didn’t want people hearing the conversations at adjacent rooms and taking the time to prepare.

Oh, I like this guy.

He hadn’t given his name, but I’d find it.

***I kicked off my boots and spent the next few hours reading through runes atop my new bed. The threadbare sheets and single pillow weren’t particularly comfortable, but I was glad just to have a private room.

While I studied the runes, I contemplated what I could potentially build. My few crystals wouldn’t get me very far, but I did have a small discretionary stipend to spend on things outside of what the academy provided. Basic food in the mess hall, lodgings, and uniforms were already covered.

I assumed most of the other students who were lucky enough to have a stipend spent it on the much better food that could be found in the assorted restaurants on the campus, or on things like more books or added conveniences.

My four silver sigils per week were going toward an enchanting fund. One of my first priorities would be to figure out the local rates on buyingvarious types of enchanting materials. My reading indicated that there were a lot more types of mana crystals than I had initially realized, and that there were some alternatives to using crystals or getting help from other attuned, but that they tended to be harder to come by.

My first priority? Enchanting the flask where I was keeping the water from the pool in the tower. I didn’t know if the effect that had given me my attunement was inherent to the water, or if the water was just a conduit for the goddess to use to give people attunements. If it was the former, I couldn’t know if the water’s magical properties would remain stable forever. Or maybe it would just evaporate if it was left alone. I didn’t want that to happen.

After doing that bit of reading, I grudgingly got back to the stack of paperwork on my desk. I skimmed over school rules and regulations, as well as things like the details on earning points for graduation. I could worry about those later.

I was looking for the campus map. I had something important to do. Finding the map was easy enough. Actually navigating the campus to findProfessor Orden’s office was considerably more challenging. Not only were there several buildings that didn’t appear on the map, many of the labels were out-of-date.

All in all, it took me nearly two hours to find Professor Orden’s office on the opposite side of the campus. She was, predictably, not even there.

I did, however, find a list on her door of her office hours. The next time she’d be present would be Wyddsday, the day before classes. I made a note to come back then. Not only did I want to fulfill my obligation to the Voice, I needed to know how the professor was connected. Was she some sort of servant of Katashi? Or maybe Tenjin?Valia’s patron visage was Tenjin, the Visage of Inspiration. It was commonly known that the visages often employed mortal help, even outside of their priesthoods. The presence of a foreign visage in our tower was very strange; if Professor Orden worked for Tenjin, it was likely she needed to know about it.

Was there some kind of power play going on, or was I just indulging childish fantasies of visages playing political games against each other? It was the type of thing I’d read about in stories since childhood, but the last known direct conflict between two visages had been over a hundred years ago.

I headed back in the general direction of my room. The trip hadn’t been a total waste of time; I’d discovered the locations of several facilities I intended to visit later, including the mess hall, multiple shops, the apothecary, and my current destination: the library.

Predictably, I found Sera already inside.

She had annexed an entire table, with a massive stack of books on her left and three open tomes spread out in front of her. Most of the pages I could see showed complex diagrams with runic markings. She was scanning one of them intently, apparently oblivious to my presence.

I pulled up a nearby chair, making enough noise that she turned her head with an annoyed look. Her expression shifted from irritation to an inquisitive shift in her eyebrows when she processed who had dared to disturb her studies.

“Yes, Corin?”

I leaned over the table to examine one of the closer books. “Summoning diagrams? Trying to find something powerful to summon to impress everyone before classes start?”

She shook her head, her expression sinking into a frown. “Common misconception. Summoning monsters is actually one of the least common things that Summoners do.”

I blinked. “What do you do, then?”

She stabbed a finger at a diagram in front of me. “This isn’t a summoning diagram, it’s a contract. The runes indicate the terms of the contract, and mana is used to enable it. Summoners make contracts with creatures to draw power from them.”

I scratched my chin. “Like, individual monsters? You have to meet them and bind them personally?”

“Yes. If I want to make a monster do anything — give me power, protect something, or if I want to summon it from a distance — we need to agree to a contract.”

I turned to look at her, my eyebrows knitting together. “How does that work with monsters that don’t talk?”

She flipped the pages to another diagram. “Different diagrams for different monsters. Once I charge it with mana, they basically touch each of the runes to examine them. If they ‘agree’, they contribute their own mana, signing the contract.”

“Huh. Are things like slimes really smart enough to know how to do that?”

She smirked. “Evidently. But I’m not the type to make a contract with a slime.”

“Of course not.” I huffed out a short breath that could almost be called a snort. “Planning out your first contract already?”

Her smirk broadened. “Who says I don’t have one already?”

I narrowed my eyes at the implication. “When would you have had the opportunity? Attunements are given at the end of the Judgment, and I doubtyou’ve had a chance to track down any wild monsters in the week since we finished.”

“Maybe when you tell me about the rest of your tower escapades, I’ll let you in on my secret. Maybe.” She tilted her head to meet my gaze. I rolled my own eyes in response, standing up.

“Oh, I think I can figure it out on my own. Enjoy your studies.”

She laughed. “I’ll look forward to hearing your inaccurate guesses.”

I chuckled, already turning over ideas in my head as I continued toward the enchanting section. Removing a list from a pouch on my side — I’d abandoned my much larger backpack at my room — I looked at my list of classes and their book requirements.

I’ve got Magic Theory on Tashday and Fersday, Understanding Attunements class on Kyrsday and Tensday, Physical Combat doesn’t need any books... Let’s see, I need the books for Introductory Runes on Fersday and Vasday and Mana Manipulation on Tashday... And it looks like I need to pick an elective at some point, too.

Looks like Fersday and Tashday will be the busiest, since I’ve already got two classes on each. Might be smart to pick an elective for a different day.

I was sufficiently distracted that I nearly bumped into someone. I looked up just in time, only to freeze in the shock of recognition.

She froze, too. For a moment, our eyes met, and I felt a surge of long- buried emotions.

Clutching her books tightly to her chest, the girl — no, a young woman now — looked away, fleeing without another word.

It was not a coward’s move. I had been about to do the same, and I thanked her for taking the necessity away from me. I wasn’t quite ready to confront the implications of our meeting here. Apparently, neither was she.

I pushed her from my mind as quickly as I could, just as I had for years.

Enchanting. I was planning to get books on enchanting.

I picked up some of the first books I came across, too distracted by my mental athletics to properly focus, and headed for the counter.

The librarian, an older man with long and vast gray sideburns, quirked an eyebrow as I set the books down. “A little ambitious, aren’t we?”

Of the three books I was checking out, two of them were marked “advanced”, intended for graduates. Oops.

I offered him a winning smile. “I’d like to get ahead of the schedule.”

The librarian chuckled. “You’ll change your mind soon enough. Sign here and here.” He pressed a slip across the table, which I signed.

With my mind still spinning in circles, it landed on a particular issue I realized I hadn’t sufficiently examined. “Um, I don’t know if you know this,but I’m supposed to deliver a message to Lyras Orden. Is that Professor Orden?”

“Yep,” he confirmed. “That’s her.”

Good. It would have been embarrassing if I told my whole story to the wrong Orden. Embarrassing and potentially dangerous.

“One of the other teachers put you up to errands already?”

My lips twitched. “No.” Not unless I counted Mysterious Book Entity as a teacher. “This is a personal favor for someone, but I imagine the errands will come soon enough.”

“Take my advice — don’t let them make you a servant. Especially not Orden, she’ll work you to the bone.” He snatched my signed papers from across the table. “Enjoy your books.”

I nodded and swept them under my arm, fleeing the scene. I couldn’t help but glance back toward where I had seen Cecily Lambert, but she was already gone.

***I made it back to the relative shelter of my room, examining my haul from the library. In my hurry, I hadn’t actually picked up the books I needed for the semester, but I suspected any copies of those would be long gone — many students would have rushed straight there to try to save the coin necessary to purchase them. I’d have to hit the book store later.

The ones I had managed to pick up were interesting, though. Ambient Mana and Its Sources by Rellik was the only entry-level book. Advanced Artifice: Permanent Enchantments was something I was deeply interested in, but Inaccuracies in Modern Teachings of Enchanting History sounded considerably duller.

A quick glance through the Advanced Artifice book told me that the smug librarian had been right — I needed a stronger foundation before I could get much out of such an advanced book. I could guess at what a Personal Mana Conversion Ratio was, but I didn’t know the context behind why it was important or how to figure one out.

I spent much of the rest of the day reading through my rune book, not daring to brave the outside again and the prospect of seeing anyone else I was familiar with. My stomach would eventually drive me to the dining hall, but my paperwork indicated it was open late, and a later visit was more likely to help me dodge the horrors of social interaction.

Social interaction, however, would not be so easily denied. It was a pesky creature, incessant in its hunt. A few knocks on my door, slower and more deliberate than the first set, signaled its next move.

I sighed, dislodging myself from my chair and setting down my book.

When I opened the door, I found another unfamiliar student on the opposite side.

He was broad, blonde, and muscular, a light layer of scruff distributed across his chin. He gave me a curt nod and extended an ungloved right hand— a sign that he was either not a noble, or that he already had retainers to protect him. “Curtis Maddock, your dorm chief.”

I accepted his handshake, noting the firmness of his grip and the brightly glowing attunement mark on his wrist. A different symbol graced a second attunement higher up on his arm, near the bicep.

I blinked. “Corin Cadence. How do you already have a second attunement?”

He grinned as he retracted his hand and folded his arms, standing a little straighter. “I’m a second year. Made it up to the fifth floor on last year’s final exam.”

I raised a hand to scratch my chin, intrigued. “They send you back to the tower as an exam?”

“Yup. Right at the end of the year. First year, a teacher goes with you. Second year, you’ll have to go by yourselves. You only need to reach the second floor to pass.” He patted his arm. “But like I said, my group made it to the fifth last year.”

Curtis had immediately made himself much more interesting and worth my time.

Naturally, I barraged him with questions. “How’d you make it so far? Was there any particular strategy you employed? Do you remember the specific rooms you had to deal with?”

He chuckled in response. “Can’t tell you about the rooms I do remember; that’s part of the test. Wouldn’t want to spoil the surprise. We can talk strategy sometime, though, once you’re a little better prepared. Anyway, I’ve got to get to the other rooms. We’re going to have a dorm meeting in an hour, on the grass outside. Just wanted to invite you.”

I nodded in silent thanks.

I didn’t want to be around that many people, but getting to know someone who had blazed through that many floors in his first year was a worthwhile investment. “I’ll be there.”

He waved amiably. “See you soon.”

I closed my door, going back to my studies.

I’m going to need more books on the tower.

I’d already read several, but they were mostly geared toward the Judgment. The other books on other elements of the tower were still intended for people who hadn’t ever been to one; I needed information that was moreapplicable toward someone who wanted to make it higher in the tower.

Every floor I explored was one step closer to getting Tristan back and I was far from giving up.

I also needed a book on attunements — I hadn’t recognized the ones on Curtis’ arm at a glance, which was embarrassing. There were only eight local ones, but I could only remember about five of the symbols at the moment. I’d make it a priority to pick up the book for my attunements class soon.

I headed out to the grass after the hour was up, a book still in hand. I stood a few paces away from the gathering crowd while they chatted with each other, awaiting Curtis’ arrival. That took a few more minutes, then it was a few more before the grass was fully populated. Curtis instructed us to gather in a circle.

“All right, people. Looks like we’ve got a few dissidents who aren’t going to show. That’s fine. They’ll just have to miss out on my brilliant sense of humor and style.”

He laughed, and there were a few half-hearted chuckles in reply. I appreciated his effort at humor, even if it fell mostly flat.

“Uh, anyway, yeah. I stayed here last year, and we made a great team. Well, six great teams, actually. Later in the year, you’re going to get split into teams of — you guessed it — six students. So, get to know each other while you can, yeah? Much easier to take the tests if you already can work together.”

He pointed at himself. “I’ll be your dorm chief. You come to me if you have any problems with anyone, from this dorm or otherwise, and I’ll try to straighten them out. I’ll also answer questions, provided I’m allowed to. We’re going to go around in a circle and introduce ourselves, then I’ll let you guys take things from there.”

He pointed to the guy to his right to start with introductions. I paid minimal attention, only noting people who mentioned experiences that interested me, until the rotation reached someone I hadn’t expected to show up — the almond-eyed teen who had knocked on my door earlier.

“Jin. Pleased to meet you all.”

Jin. Just Jin. He didn’t give his surname, nor his attunement. Both omissions were clearly deliberate.

He must have caught me looking at him. He flashed a half-grin my way, dark eyes alight with amusement.

When the rotation reached me, I kept my own introduction brief, but more informative. “Corin Cadence. Enchanter.”

I wasn’t going to make any claims about being happy to be there; the lie would have been obvious.

A few students later, a short, overweight blond hooked my attention. “Oh, hey everyone, I’m Tom. McCormick, that is. Most of my friends call me Tommy, or Big Tom, but don’t worry, it doesn’t bother me. Anyway, I guess I’m what they call a Mender. Pretty good, huh? I think it’s one of the best attunements, except maybe Summoners, who are pretty much the best at everything.”

His rambling was excessive, but there weren’t a lot of Menders in my dorm; it was mostly other Enchanters. If I needed a Mender for a group activity later in the year, I’d keep him in mind.

After the introductions, we dispersed pretty fast. I noted the general direction Jin was heading — second floor, toward the right — before he disappeared from my line of sight.

I’d figure him out. It was just a matter of time.

