CHAPTER IX — HARD DAY

I woke on Sera’s floor with a terrible neck ache.

We’d dropped Jin off with Patrick, who had been kind enough to lend out his own floor, much as we’d suspected. We didn’t fill Patrick in on any details aside from Jin’s room being “in need of repairs”.

Maybe I’d tell him eventually.

Sera was reading in bed when I pushed myself off the floor. “Finally. Nowdo I get some real answers?” She stared down at me.

I rubbed my neck. “I wish I had them. Suffice to say that I was attacked last night, and Jin helped me out.”

“Attacked?” She pushed her covers away. “You actually meant that comment about assassins? What happened?”

“Eh, I probably shouldn’t get into it until I have a better idea of what was really happening. Simple answer is that I think one of the teachers was testing me. Or maybe hazing me. Probably both.”

“You could file a complaint about that.”

I shook my head. “Not worth it. Thanks for giving me a place to rest.” I stood up. “You’re the only one I trusted.”

She eyed me dubiously. “You really mean that?”

I put my arm down slowly, and raised my head to look her in the eye. “Yeah. I do.”

There was a beat of silence before I turned away. “And I will fill you in on more of this when I can. I promise. Until then, though, I want you to be extra careful. I don’t think there’s any actual danger, but last night got me nervous.” So much so that I’d had trouble getting to sleep.

“Buy a chain for your door,” I urged. “Today. I’ll help you install it if you need me to. We need to start warding our rooms, too. I’ll learn the necessary runes.”

She ran a hand through her hair. “You think we’re really in danger?”

All I could do was shrug. “I don’t know, but if last night proved anything to me, it’s that it’s better to be as prepared as we can be.”

“If there’s a threat to you, or to both us, I’d really like to know why.”

“Let me do some info-gathering on that, and I’ll plan to meet you again tonight after classes. Say, at eighteen or so. Dining hall.”

“I have a class until nineteen.” “Seriously?”

She nodded.

“Fine. Dinner at twenty. My stomach will pay penance for the sin of my intrusion last night.”

“I’ll see you there.”

***I headed straight for Professor Orden’s office. If I didn’t check in with Jin by mid-day, he would inform the academy guard.

Fortunately, she was present, and without a line this time.

I was hesitant when I stepped into the room and closed the door behindme.

“Professor—”

“Wait. I’ll ward the room first.” She stood, tracing figures on the wall witha finger - the same few I’d seen her draw before. Or, at least, I was pretty sure they were.

When she finished, she sat back down in her chair. “Now, before you talk, let’s be quite clear. I’m Professor Orden. The same Professor Orden that you met in this room previously, and the same one that was at your room last night.”

I nodded. “And how can you prove that?”

“Last time you were here, we spoke about the Voice of the Tower. I have told no one else of this. I suspect you have been equally tight lipped. Thus, unless you think someone was spying on this chamber — quite unlikely, but you’re welcome to check the runes — I am, at very least, the same Orden you talked to previously.”

She took a breath. “You could assert that I was never the real Professor Orden, but that line of thinking doesn’t get you anywhere. If I’m good enough to pretend to be Professor Orden to the entirety of the campus staff, I’m effectively Orden as far as you’re concerned, no?”

“It would be a problem if you’re not the same Lyras Orden the Voice directed me to—”

“The Voice called me Lyras? Curious. Continue.”

“—but you’re right, I have no way of doing anything about that right now.

Maybe I’ll look into your records or consult a Diviner eventually. I should also mention, before things get too heated, that my compatriots will be going to the academy guard about you if I don’t tell them not to by a designated time.”

Jin was the only one I’d actually warned, but in fairness, Sera probably would go to the guard if I missed dinner. Maybe I should have told her more specifics, though.

“How assertive of you. Unnecessary, but good. Your friends, if they reported the incident, would find the guards quite amused. I reported my raid on your room to them in advance, of course. Your dorm chief was also informed in advance. Had you checked with either of them, you could have confirmed that. Of course, I hadn’t anticipated a firearm being discharged — how novel! — and the guards already did investigate the scene.” She gave me a pointed look. “You would have also known that, and met with them, if you had stayed rather than retreating to Miss Shard’s room.”

I tensed at that.

“Yes, of course I know where you went. You should endeavor to be less predictable next time. Fortunately, I am not actually your enemy, and you performed better than anticipated in the test. As such, I will allow you to be a part of the investigation if I require your help.”

I tilted my head to the side quizzically. “Investigation?”

“I,” she tapped her fingers on the table, “am looking into an incident that happened at the tower. I may require your help, but I will be looking into some other matters first.”

An incident? I hope she’s not talking about my little prison break.

I scratched my chin. “All right, but you’re going to repair my door. And my ceiling.”

She let out a light trill of a laugh. “Ahh... No. Ward your room, Corin.

You’re an Enchanter. No excuses, I gave you days.”

I had literally zero training as an Enchanter until yesterday.

I didn’t offer the retort that was on my mind, though. It would just make me look weaker. “Fine. But if you want me to make serious wards, I need resources.”

“Hmpf. For the moment, I need you to learn more than I need you to earn, so I’ll consider it. Nothing today, but perhaps I’ll arrange for you to receive a delivery at some point. In the meantime, we need to continue our conversation elsewhere. This place is, as I’ve mentioned, not perfectly secure. I had planned to take you somewhere to speak last night, but you were quite insistent on me leaving.”

I nodded, turning toward the door. “Where are we going?”

“No need for walking. Take my hand.”

I didn’t like where this was going, but I was tired of waiting for answers. I had my sword, my cane, and my shield sigil — I was as prepared as I was going to be if she turned this into a fight.

I walked toward the table and reached out. She gracefully took my hand.

“Spirit of wind and air, I command you!By the pact sealed between us, I invoke your power. Rise around us and within us;Carry us upon your ethereal wings to the place of greatest safety. Veiled Teleport!”

My vision went black. My stomach revolted.

When I could see again, we were in a cube-shaped room with what looked like transparent walls.

As I bent toward the floor to retch, I realized that even the ground was transparent.

All around the room was blackness.

A single floating torch flame illuminated the area.

“What... is this place?” I raised a hand to shield my eyes from the brightness of the flame.

“A safe locale. We can speak freely here.”

A transparent chair appeared directly behind her, and she sat down in it, looking nonchalant.

A magical construct? Is she a Shaper, then?That last spell seemed like a Summoner spell, though. She referred to a pact; maybe this is part of the bound creature’s power.

She also used illusions of some kind last night.

So, at least two attunements. Maybe three or more. I’m way out of my striking range here. Again.

I straightened, rubbing my temples to try — unsuccessfully — to clear some of the nausea.

“Ugh. All right. Let’s talk.”

“Good.” Professor Orden steepled her fingers. “First, I should be clear that I do not intend to do you any harm while you’re here. That doesn’t mean you should lower your guard, of course.”

“Right.” My eyes searched from side to side again, but I couldn’t see any signs of traps. Or much of anything else. The walls didn’t seem to have any runes on them. “I take it that ambush was some sort of test to see if I was following your instructions?”

She nodded. “And your general ability to protect yourself, as well as your creativity under pressure. I anticipated most of your tactics, but not firing into the ceiling. That was... inspired.”

Yeah. Inspired. That was a nice way to put it.

In reality, I was lucky I hadn’t accidentally hit Jin when I’d fired the shot. Still, I put on a confident smirk. “Unconventional, but it worked. Still, stabbing me with a knife was a bit extreme for a test, wasn’t it?”

“What, this?” She rolled her right wrist. The curved knife appeared. I tensed, but she laughed, making a gesture again. “You were quite nearly undone by this...” the dagger vanished, replaced by another object of similar size, “Carrot.”

I coughed. “Seriously? A carrot?”

“I can make illusions, darling. It was necessary to make you feel threatened to elicit a reaction. I wasn’t about to put you in any actual danger.”

I frowned at that. “But I could have hurt you.”

Professor Orden chuckled. “How adorable,” she mused afterward, shaking her head. “Did you notice what happened when you fired your cane at me?”

I nodded. “Some type of protective spell.”

“Good, you were paying at least some degree of attention. There’s a common misconception that Enchanters can’t be effective combatants. The people who perpetuate that misconception are rarely aware of what an Emerald-level enchantment can do.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. “Emerald-level?”

“Ah, you haven’t been briefed on attunement levels yet? I shouldn’t be surprised, I suppose it is only your first week.” She pointed a finger at my forehead. “At the moment, you’re what we’d call a Quartz Mage, or just Quartz for short. It’s the lowest level of attuned, and virtually all students begin there. One of the goals of the university is to increase your mana to the extent that you reach the next level, Carnelian Mage, by the time you graduate.”

I nodded. “Is that the reason why some marks of the same attunement look different than others?”

“Precisely. When you reach the next attunement level, your mark will visually change. Before you ask, it isn’t painful. Some people experience a brief feeling of disorientation, and people looking at you will see you glow the color corresponding to the new attunement level, but that’s it. The transitions into higher levels are more impressive, but they’re rare enough events that you’re unlikely to ever see one, let alone experience it.”

That made sense. “How many levels are there?”

“Above Carnelian, you have Sunstone, then Citrine. That’s the highestyou’re ever going to see under normal circumstances. Even then, Citrine Mages are extremely rare. Above them, you have Emerald Mages, perhaps a handful of which exist in the world. Finally, Sapphire Mages. A hypothetical title. Some speculate that one or two might have existed in history.”

“Those names seem sort of... arbitrary.” I tried not to sound petulant. Orden raised a shoulder in a half-shrug. “There’s a form of logic to it.

They represent the color of the aura of mages of that attunement, and those colors follow the same order as colors appear on a rainbow. Thus, a Carnelian Mage has a red aura and so on.” She paused for a moment. “Sunstones aren’t always orange, so that one’s a little easier to confuse, but the rest tend to be easy to remember by color.”

I scratched my chin, trying to process all that. “Right. And you’re an Emerald Enchanter?”

She huffed a small laugh. “Goddess, no. I’m only Carnelian-level as an Enchanter, and barely C-ranked within it... meaning toward the middle of my progression to the next attunement. I had this made as a favor by an old friend, who is a Citrine Enchanter. It’s possible to learn a few spells that are above your attunement level — in his case, he knows at least two Emerald- level spells.”

Orden took a breath. “A person’s attunement level represents their overall capabilities. Casting something above your level is possible, but potentially dangerous. Miss Shard, for example, is still Quartz, but she cast a Carnelian- level spell during your little conflict with Teft.”

She’s been watching us closely. “So, I take it an Emerald-level protection spell can block, what, dozens of hits from a cane instead of a couple?”

“One could devise an enchantment to do that at a much lower level. I could make such a thing myself. No, my vest absorbs mana from low-level offensive spells — yes, a dueling cane’s attacks are spells — and redirects that mana into recharging my other magical items. If you had managed to penetrate that defense with a powerful enough attack — which you don’t have, of course — one of my other defensive items would have stopped it.”

Holy Goddess. That’s... not even remotely fair. “If items that powerful exist, why don’t we see people using them all the time?”

“Keeping items like my tunic rare keeps the people who have them — that is, the people who already are in power — secure. Beyond that, they’re hard to make. It took my friend weeks to finish this single enchantment, and the materials were hundreds of times more expensive than what it takes to make a little shield sigil like yours. At least two of the components were from spire guardians.”

Ouch. Looks like I won’t be getting one of those any time soon. “Still,what about weaker ones? Shouldn’t everyone in the military have something like a, I don’t know, permanent version of my sigil?”

“A common argument. Some units do carry sigils like yours, but it’s more expensive than it sounds. A few large companies carry the patents on the most efficient permanent shield enchantments, and thus manufacturing them in mass requires going through those companies.”

I blinked. “You’re joking. You can patent combinations of runes?”

“I’m quite serious, I assure you,” she retorted flatly. “No one can stop you from making an enchanted item for yourself, of course, or even making a few for friends. But the minute you start to sell them on the open market? Be prepared for solicitors to take you to court.”

Ugh. “That sounds pretty abysmal. But if I found something unique, I could patent it myself?”

“Certainly, but the three main ‘rune manufacturers’ have a few hundred years advantage on you. Occasionally, someone still finds an unusual rune on a magical item high up in one of the towers, but most possible runes were found long ago through a combination of divination and brute forcing combinations.”

“Lovely. All right, so I couldn’t have harmed you. You’ve proven my preparations were inadequate. How could I have done better, when you’re clearly vastly more powerful, better informed, and have more resources at your disposal?”

“Ah. An excellent question. Sometimes, victory is not about being able to defeat your opponent; it’s about making it too inefficient for your opponent to even try to win. You had the right idea when you fired into the roof, and also when you yelled... although the latter was muffled by the rune I wrote outside your door before I came inside. A standard practice for any Enchanter planning stealth work. Sufficient to cover ordinary noises, but not quite enough to cover the gunshot. That would have gotten me into some trouble if I had been a true assassin.”

I nodded at that. “So, signal for help.”

“That’s one part, but a sufficiently prepared safe place — like your room— should have deterred me before I even entered. I won’t be breaking in again any time soon, but I will come by and check on your door at some point in the next few weeks. I expect defensive wards. Be creative with the ones you choose.”

“All right... but why do you think this is necessary? I have some idea about why my information might be dangerous, but I haven’t told you enough of it yet to warrant the kind of security you’re giving me.”

“On the contrary, young Cadence. As I mentioned before, the Voicewouldn’t have contacted you if you weren’t already involved in a conflict of great significance. Moreover, recent events related to the tower have given me an idea of why you were sent to me. I have a responsibility to make sure you are adequately prepared before I tackle that danger myself, and nothing inspires a student into action like the threat of death.”

I couldn’t argue with that logic, even if I didn’t like her method. I ground my jaw, continuing to listen.

“Did the Voice give you any indication of the larger situation we’re dealing with?”

I shook my head. “No, but I did see some things in the tower that certainly seemed noteworthy.”

“Interesting. Are you aware that no one has exited the tower since the day that you completed your test?”

My eyes widened at that. “No, I, uh, hadn’t heard.”

“Don’t be hard on yourself. We’ve kept that little tidbit quite tightly under control, and it’s why I took your claim about the Voice so seriously when you brought it to my attention. At the point you told me, we had just deployed a second team into the tower to investigate. To date, neither of those teams has returned. Both had Sunstone Mages, and they are normally capable of handling the first several floors of the tower.”

I didn’t quite know what to say to that. I offered, “Um.”

“At this point, you’re probably wondering why I didn’t follow up with you immediately or teleport you straight here once you mentioned the Voice.”

Sure, we’ll go with that.

She continued, “I needed to have a chance to vet you first. Believe it or not, students have been used as spies and assassins in the past. I had to verify that a Corin Cadence actually entered the tower, exited, and fits your description. Beyond that, I had to check and see if you had any unusual attunements beyond the obvious mark on your forehead, or anything else of note. Your sword was of some interest, but while it’s an advanced weapon to find in a Judgment, it was not enough to imply that you were an assassin. And you made no effort to conceal it.”

Aww, she thought I might be an assassin? That’s kind of flattering, I suppose. “That makes sense. I suppose a message directing you to go to the tower while the tower is inescapable would be somewhat suspect.”

“Precisely. There are a few possible scenarios we’re entertaining. None of them are pretty. Fortunately, it’s unlikely that everyone inside will be... purged. If that were necessary, whoever sealed the tower would have also made it impossible to enter. Thus, it’s more likely this is a security measure to prevent someone specific from leaving.”

I took a deep breath as I considered how to respond. “I think I have an idea about who that might be.”

She raised an eyebrow.

“So, when I was in the tower, I ran into a few other people—” The eyebrow lifted higher.

“—and yes, I remember the experience. I’m not sure why. Maybe the Voice helped?”

“No need to speculate on that at the moment. Please, continue.”

“Well, I found a few people and ended up making my way through some of the chambers with them. One of them was a swordsman named Keras—”

Her focus intensified at the name. I tried not to stumble over my words. “—who ended up fighting with — and I’m fairly confident when I say this— Katashi, the Visage of Valor.”

“Katashi was there? Interesting. Continue.”

Really, that’s your only comment?“Without getting into too much detail, I fled the fight along with the other two. I mean, one of them was unconscious, but Vera, a woman from... Caelford, I think? Maybe? She helped me carry the unconscious boy. Then she betrayed me and took the kid, running off on her own. Not really clear on why.”

“And the Voice interceded on your behalf?”

“Not physically, he just told me a route to take to get out. Then, when I got there, he told me to contact you. Oh, and he gave me the sword.”

Professor Orden looked stymied by that. “He... appeared to you? In person?”

I shook my head. “Oh, I suppose it probably wasn’t really him. Just a floating robe. Like, a simulacrum, maybe?”

She took a deep breath. “Ah, of course. Yes, that makes more sense. Did he tell you anything else?”

I paused, considering. I was being deliberately vague, of course, but I needed to tell her anything that could get me more information. I didn’t trust her enough to reveal anything that would make me look bad. “He indicated that there was something he needed to do quickly, and that I needed to leave the tower fast. I suppose that was referring to sealing the tower off. Could he do that?”

“Perhaps.”

“At the time, I assumed he was going to go intercede in the battle between Keras and Katashi.”

She raised a hand to her forehead. “Unlikely, but perhaps through indirect means. I take it that means you did not see how the battle concluded, then?”

I shrugged. “No. But it’s a foregone conclusion, right? Katashi is a visage, they—”

“I wouldn’t make too many assumptions when it comes to Keras Selyrian.”

Selyrian? I’d never heard that surname before. “Who is he?”

“A dangerous heretic. He’s appeared in several cities, given speeches against the goddess’ doctrine, and disappeared. The common theory is that he is an agent of the Tyrant in Gold, possibly one of his children.”

Oh, lovely, I may have just let a malevolent demigod out of prison.

I rubbed my forehead. “Do you think that’s likely to be true?”

Orden shook her head. “He’s certainly powerful, but I can’t say if that’s accurate. There are other possibilities. He could be one of Wydd’s forms, for example.”

I nodded at that. Wydd was the Visage of Forbidden Knowledge and she— or he, depending on the day — was known to take on many forms. There were stories of her conflicting with other visages in the past, but I hadn’t heard any that involved direct combat. “Do you think Keras is the reason the tower was sealed?”

She shifted her hand, drumming her fingers on the chair. “That is an excellent question. Knowing that Keras is involved certainly puts the whole situation in a different light. It’s possible he’s responsible. I’ll have to consider it and investigate further. You’re welcome to research him yourself, but don’t make it your primary focus.”

Orden paused, eyes pensive. “You said the woman with him was named Vera, and sounded Caelish?”

I thought back to when I’d met Vera and her interactions with the other prisoners. “Yeah, but I don’t think they were working together. She fled just the same as I did when the battle started.”

“Interesting.”

“And you mentioned a young boy. Another applicant, like yourself?”

“Not sure. He had even darker skin than Vera, so he was probably Caelish, too. He looked too young to be taking a Judgment and he had an unusual mark on his forehead. It was large for an attunement. It looked more like a tattoo.”

“That could be nothing; tattoos are much more common in Caelford. But you’re right that it’s unusual enough to note. If nothing else, it should be possible to find out if a young Caelfordian with a forehead tattoo entered through the Door of Judgment recently.”

“Do people from Caelford take their Judgments at a younger age than we do?”

She shook her head. “No, but people from Edria take them at twelve or thirteen. It’s possible he’s from Edria and simply had a Caelish complexion.”

True enough. It was easy to assume someone’s region of birth based on their skin tone, but there were people of all nationalities living everywhere these days.

“Were you serious when you mentioned that there could be agents of a visage coming after me, or was that just to inspire me to prepare?”

Orden cracked her knuckles. “Both. You must understand that part of the influence of the visages comes from the belief that they are infallible. You witnessed a visage fight someone — not destroy someone, not execute someone, fight them — and you escaped after seeing it.”

She waved a finger at me in warning. “That kind of knowledge is dangerous. It may be sufficient in itself for Katashi to want you eliminated. Perhaps he would be merciful enough to order someone to remove your memories. Of course, maybe he won’t care at all. It is always prudent to plan for the worst case.”

I agreed with her logic. And, considering I’d been responsible for freeing Keras in the first place, the chances that Katashi would hold a grudge were even higher than Orden knew.

“So what do I need to do for now?”

“Focus on learning how to use your attunement. First, because it will improve your ability to defend yourself. Second, because there’s a good chance I will need to take you with me into the tower to investigate this later in the year. I will try to give you as much time as possible to prepare, and I will also ask some of my contacts to keep an eye on you in case there are any actual threats in the meantime.”

I sighed in relief. “Thank you, I don’t think I’d be capable of repelling an actual assassin on my own yet.”

“I never expected you to be, but your preparations did show promise. Continue to improve on them. I may not be able to look out for you forever, especially since I will most likely need to go into the tower on my own for a while to investigate this.”

I considered that. “Do you need me to help with your investigation right now? I mean, I obviously shouldn’t go in the tower yet, but what about other research?”

She shook her head. “No, not yet. Focus on improving your skills. You should make certain to get your attunement to Carnelian status before you visit the tower again. You’ll be much more likely to survive that way.”

Yeah, fair enough, surviving is one of my favorite things to do.

From the way Orden was starting to glance back toward the paperwork onher desk, I got the message that she was done with the conversation. I took a step back toward the door. “Okay, that makes sense. Do you have any idea when you might need me in there?”

Orden pursed her lips. “I can’t say. You should prepare as quickly as possible. Even the first floor will be much more dangerous than what you faced in the Judgment. I would advise trying to reach Carnelian status within three months. Sooner would be better.”

Three months to hit Carnelian. One more thing to work on.

“I’ll do my best to improve my enchanting as quickly as possible.”

She scratched her nose before replying. “Good. You should also study the tower itself as well. Even if I do not end up bringing you into the tower to investigate this situation, students are generally sent back into the tower — accompanied by a teacher — for a test at the end of the year. Thus, you should focus heavily on preparing for another visit to the tower either way.”

“Got it.”

Orden gave me a curt nod. “Excellent. I hope that the Voice can clarify this situation in general, especially whether Katashi wants you dead. I will try to determine that as quickly as possible.”

I nodded in return. “And if Katashi does want me dead, I should be preparing to fight him when I go back to the tower?”

“Oh, Goddess, no, child. If Katashi decides to attack us directly, you should be prepared to die.”

***We concluded our talk quickly after that, and she sent me on my way with one last instruction.

“Don’t discuss what happened in the tower with anyone who isn’t already aware of it. We need more information before we raise any alarms.”

I wasn’t pleased by that, but I understood her reasoning. “What about my sister?”

“You may consult with Jin if you need assistance, since he’s already gotten himself involved, but we can’t risk dragging anyone else into this situation. Understood?”

“Understood.”

I considered telling Sera immediately in spite of Orden’s orders. There was roughly a zero percent chance she wasn’t going to be dragged into the situation at some point. It was just a matter of when.

I should probably do a bit more research before I talk to her, though. At this point we don’t know enough to formulate a plan of action.

I considered my options while I went to verify a few things.

Yes, the academy guard had been informed that I was going to be under amock “attack” the night before. No, they hadn’t expected a firearm to be discharged. Fortunately, the bullet hadn’t hit anyone.

Curtis, the dorm chief, had the same story. Apparently they hadn’t heard me screaming for help due to a rune Orden had marked in chalk on the wall outside my room. That was good. Everyone had heard the bullet, though. He’d made it outside to reassure the other students that it was just a drill shortly after Jin and I had fled the scene.

He also mentioned that this sort of thing happened occasionally. He’d been a target of a similar “attack” himself the first year. Apparently, it was something of a tradition.

Wonderful.

I wasn’t amused. In fact, I was rather bemused. But... at least her story seemed to check out. I even found an unfamiliar rune marked on the outside of my door, presumably the one for dampening noise. I wrote it down so I could look it up later.

I left a note for Jin telling him that I was safe, and then headed to my next class. I’d tell Sera that everything was okay at dinner, as planned. Hopefully I’d have a better idea of what I was actually willing to tell her by then.

I quickly realized that the answer was “not much”. Not because I distrusted her, but because of the public setting. If Orden was paranoid enough about the information to teleport me to... goddess, I didn’t even know where or what that place was. In any case, it implied a level of discretion was ideal.

I needed security. I’d fill Sera and Jin in on the very basics, like that I probably wasn’t going to be assassinated immediately, and then work on learning the runes for properly warding a room to prevent Divination and other forms of observation.

Assuming I could even cast them.

***The rest of the week had markedly fewer attempts on my life. It took a few days to get my ceiling fixed, which was awkward for a time. Fortunately, Jin seemed amused by the situation.

I told Patrick, Jin, and Sera that Orden’s assault on my room had been a “surprise test”.

Patrick took this at face value. Jin tilted his head, pressing his lips together against whatever skeptical remark he had lined up. It didn’t stop his eyes from rolling.

Sera wasn’t that polite.

“That’s a bunch of resh, Corin.”

I waved a hand dismissively. “I... might have done a few things to warrantthe surprise test. But don’t stress over it. I’m pretty sure I passed.”

“Right.” She folded her arms across her chest. “Feel free to let the rest of us know when you feel like trusting us.”

I winced. Sera was right, of course. I needed to show a little trust for my friends if I wanted them to trust me in return.

I wanted to tell them all right then, but I’d made a plan and I needed to stick with it. The truth was still buried somewhere and I’d need to do more digging to find it.

***Since I wasn’t ready to tell Patrick or Sera everything about what had happened, I waited until later in the day when I had a chance to talk to Jin alone.

I knocked on the door to his room.

He opened it a few moments later, wearing a quizzical expression. “Ah, Corin.”

I gave him my best conspiratorial grin. “Want to come with me to do some research on this ‘Keras’ guy?”

Jin gave me a considering look, then glanced away. “I suppose it might be more interesting than studying,” he told the wall.

We made our way to the library first. It seemed like a logical choice at the time, but the librarian was quick to correct us. “Keras Selyrian, you say? No, I don’t think we have any newspaper with articles on him. You can check — that trouble in Dalenos was about three months ago.”

Jin looked at her, head tilted. “What do you mean, trouble?”

“Oh, that isn’t what you’re here about? He’s a heretic. Gathered a big crowd and started preaching about how the visages have been lying to everyone. The local guard tried to arrest him, but he escaped.”

Well, that’s disconcerting. I stepped a little closer to the librarian’s desk. “Where could we find out more about him?”

“Well, the papers are on the second floor near the back,” she gestured toward the stairway, “but your best bet would be the Divinatory. They might have a memory crystal from someone who witnessed the whole thing.”

I blinked. Was that possible? I’d heard of memory crystals, but not much about them. “That sounds promising. We’ll check the papers first, then head to the Divinatory.”

We did just that.

It took a couple hours to sift through all the newspapers in the appropriate range of dates the librarian gave us — everything from about three to five months back — but we didn’t find anything on Keras. That wasn’t particularly surprising, though, given that the newspapers tended to focus onlocal events, political gossip, and occasional advertisements.

The most disturbing thing about glancing through the newspapers was the sheer number of articles talking about hostile actions along our border with Edria. Troop movements, weapons tests... even rumors of Edrian agents found across the border, probing for weaknesses.

Could a war with Edria be what Keras was talking about in Dalenos? If so, is he trying to cause a war, prevent one, or something else entirely?I needed to know more.

We headed to the Divinatory next.

I went straight to the front desk. “Excuse me, we’re looking for information on someone named Keras Selyrian. Would you happen to have any memory crystals or other information related to him?”

The second-year student behind the counter scratched his chin. “Doesn’t sound familiar, but I’ll go check the archives. Wait here, please.”

He returned a few minutes later. “Uh, would you mind telling me why you’re looking into this?”

Uh oh.

“Research assignment,” Jin replied while I was still thinking. It was a good answer.

The student glanced at Jin, frowned, and then looked back to me. “I’m afraid all information on Keras Selyrian is currently in the restricted archives. Do you have an authorization slip from your professor?”

I shook my head. “No, it must have slipped her mind. I don’t suppose you’d be willing to let us take a quick look?”

“Definitely not. I’m not sure I could get you anything even if you had an authorization slip; it’s in a classified section of the archives beyond my security level. If your teacher wants you to see this, she’d be best off coming here herself and talking to the Researcher.”

I pondered my reply for a moment. “All right, we’ll talk to our teacher.

Thanks.”

“Sure, sorry I couldn’t help.”

We headed back to my dorm room to discuss things. Jin leaned back against the wall, wearing a thoughtful expression. “Should we ask Orden to go pick this up for us?”

“I think if she was willing to do that, she probably would have already. I have a feeling this is probably another test.”

Jin nodded, seeming to reach a conclusion. “How important is it to you that we succeed at this?”

“Uh, pretty important? Not only could it provide critical information to help clarify what I’ve already seen, it could be the type of thing that mighthelp keep me alive. I’d call that a pretty high priority.”

He nodded again, raising a hand to his lips. “Do you have some of your civilian clothing? Maybe a scarf or a coat that isn’t part of the standard uniform?”

I blinked. “Sure...?”

“Show me. I’m going to need to borrow a few things.” “You don’t have your own civilian clothes?”

He shook his head. “I do, but nothing appropriate for what I have in mind.”

Well, this should be interesting, at least.

I showed him what I had in my drawers.

Jin selected a heavy winter coat, a tall hat, and an ordinary walking cane from my belongings, and then headed up to his room. The coat was a little bit too big for him, but not implausibly so.

I did a little bit of reading while I waited, but I was pretty distracted wondering what in the name of the goddess he was up to.

Two hours later, Jin returned, pulling a glowing green gemstone out of a pocket of my borrowed coat. His face was covered in sweat and he was clearly out of breath, but lips were curled into a crooked grin.

I stared blankly at him. “Is that...?”

“You’re going to want to see this. After I leave, put the crystal in your right palm and say ‘view.’” He took a deep breath, wiping off his forehead with his free hand. “You’ll be incapacitated for several minutes while you view the memory, so do it somewhere safe.”

I nodded. “How did you—”

Jin shook his head. “I didn’t. You got this on your own. There’s an after- hours return slot on the right side of the Divinatory. Drop it there late tonight. Don’t be seen.”

...did Jin just break into the Divinatory in a ridiculous disguise and steal that gem for me?This may be the single most amazing thing that has ever happened.

I smiled brightly, accepting the gem as he handed it to me. “Thanks, I owe you... two now? Let me know if there’s something I can do to repay you.”

He gave me a short nod. “I will. I’m leaving now.” “...can I have my coat back?”

He raised a hand, tipped my borrowed hat downward, and focused his eyes on mine. “I suppose, if you insist.”

I laughed as he slipped off the coat and hat, setting them down on the bed.

He leaned the cane up against the wall.

I put the memory crystal down on my bed and opened the door for him toleave.

He paused, turning his head toward me as he began to walk out. “Corin?” “Yeah?”

“You should distance yourself from this whole affair as quickly as possible.”

I frowned. “I’ll consider it after I take a look.”

“Good.” He left with no further discussion, and I closed the door.

Hrm. If I’m going to be out of it for several minutes, I should make myself comfortable.

I sat down on my bed, leaning back against the wall.

Maybe I should grab Sera to watch me while I do this? But then I’d have to explain a lot of things to her... I’m not sure that’s a good idea yet.

I’ll just do this now and talk to Sera later, if I think it’s appropriate.

I put the gem into my right palm, propped a pillow behind my neck for support, and moved into a comfortable position.

“View.”

My vision faded, replaced with the view of unfamiliar eyes.

***My surroundings shifted, and with them, my perspective. For one dysphoric instant, my mind refused to process the abrupt changes. Height. Clarity. My gaze shifting without my control. I adjusted, though the discomfort didn’t subside.

My new surroundings were unfamiliar, though I recognized elements within it. I was seated on one bench of many in a circular chamber with fine décor on the walls. The most notable from my position were a Valian flag — a white serpent over a crimson hexagon — and tapestries depicting two of the visages, Tenjin and Kerivas.

I tried to turn my head to inspect the rest of the room, but I couldn’t. In fact, I couldn’t move at all.

Should have expected that, I chastised myself. I’m seeing a vision, not living in it.

Fortunately, whoever had copied their memories into this crystal turned their head of their own accord a few moments later, giving me a better look at the chamber as a whole.

Well, at least I’m not completely stationary. I suppose I’ll move whenever this guy did.

The place reminded me of a theater or an opera house in structure. I didn’t see any private boxes, however. The benches were positioned to overlook a stage-like area about fifteen feet below, but instead of stage props, all I could see below were chairs and a speaker’s lectern.

Is this some sort of lecture hall?That didn’t seem quite right. I’d never seen a lecture hall with this kind of circular structure. A judicial hall of some kind, maybe?The seats were nearly all empty, but I saw a handful of people gathered in a cluster to my right. They were far enough away that I couldn’t make out all their words, but one of them turned and addressed me directly.

“He’s coming. Watch this closely. We may need to inspect the details later.” The speaker was an older man with a gray beard and a scar under his left eye.

I stood up. “Yes, Sir.”

The voice that emitted from where I was standing was strong and deep, most likely an adult male. “Should I...?”

My hand reached down, indicating a saber that was sheathed on my hip.

The older man smiled. “We’ll take care of that side of things if it comes to it. You just focus on staying safe.”

I nodded. “Yes, Sir.”

The older man turned back to the collection of figures around him as they began to disperse. As the crowd separated, I finally noticed someone I recognized. A woman in her forties in an immaculate dueling tunic, her hair raised into a bun, a sheathed saber at her side.

My mother... dressed for a fight.

She moved to a position on the exact opposite side from where I was standing. My heart lurched in my chest as I processed the fact that I was seeing her for the first time in five years and it wasn’t even through my own eyes.

Her jaw was set, her expression was grim. Something was bothering her, but she didn’t say anything aloud.

Where the resh was this? What was I seeing?There was a rapping sound from below. Someone was knocking on a door to the lower stage area. I stepped forward and glanced down, seeing a door open on the lower level. Two men in the coppery armor of the Soaring Wings guard stepped in first.

Keras Selyran followed them into the room. The guards shut the door behind him.

Keras was wearing his mask, but not his long coat or belt. His sword was absent. He was wearing a fairly standard tunic — no knives in the back like the one he’d been wearing in the tower. As far as I could tell, he was unarmed.

My vision swam for a moment as shimmering auras flashed into being around the people in the chamber.

What the— Oh!These are the memories of a Diviner; he’s using his attunement to look at the auras of the people in the room. Not a bad idea.

A quick glance around the chamber showed me some consistent colors. There were only three visible people remaining in the stands above the room: the older man; my mother; and a brown-haired woman who looked to be in her twenties. All three of them had auras in a similar color range.

Yellow with a hint of green... So, they’re either Citrine or Emerald. That’s pretty impressive, given that there are only supposed to be a handful of Emeralds on the continent. Is Mother really that powerful? I knew she was in the military for years, but...

I looked back down at the lower area, observing Keras and the guards. The guards had orange auras, meaning they were Sunstone-level. Comparable to most of the professors, then.

Keras didn’t have a colored aura at all. Instead, there was a rippling field that distorted the air around him, almost like he was underwater or within a wave of heat.

That’s disconcerting.

The masked swordsman stepped into the center of the chamber, glancing around, and then turning his head toward the older man who I’d spoken to before. “Do I have the honor of addressing Tenjin, the Visage of Insight?”

The older man laughed. “Aahh, no, I’m not quite that ancient, I’m afraid. I’m Councilor Gerald Lanoy, the Visage’s Adjutant. This is Councilor Lyran,” he gestured at my mother, “and Councilor Theas,” he waved at the other woman.

Keras scratches his chin. “Councilors? Meaning members of your Council of Lords?”

“Correct,” Councilor Lanoy confirmed. His tone was paternal. “I understand that you’re not a Valian native, so you might be unfamiliar with our governing process—”

The masked man waved to stop him. “I understand the basics. I must admit to being a bit disappointed, however. I mean no disrespect, but I was informed that I would be meeting with the visage. Why the change?”

“Regrettably, such a meeting will not be possible,” the councilor said. “I’m afraid that our... noble allies in Dalenos have declared you guilty of heresy and filed for your immediate extradition.”

Keras’ hands briefly balled into fists, then reopened. “This was a trap, then.”

Councilor Lanoy sighed. “Not a trap, Sir. I read your request for themeeting and approved it personally before the extradition request came to us. I admit to being intrigued by your claims, and were the situation different...”

Keras took a step forward. The guards tensed, moving hands toward weapon hilts, but Councilor Lanoy raised a hand to stop them.

Keras leaned back and folded his arms. “The situation can be different. Let me speak to the visage before you send me to Dalenos. I suspect he would be willing to dispel these claims of heresy personally if he heard my message.”

Councilor Theas raised a hand to her forehead, closed her eyes, and then turned her head toward Councilor Lanoy. “They’re waiting outside.”

Councilor Lanoy nodded in response, then turned back to Keras. “I regret to say this, Sir, but you are under arrest for the crime of heresy in the kingdom of Dalenos. I would like to ask you to cooperate. If you do so, we will provide you with one of our best legal advisors to attempt to convince them to lower your sentence.”

“In Dalenos? For heresy?” Keras barked a laugh. “What, would they lower the sentence to only taking off half my head?”

The old man winced. “I believe one of our attorneys would be able to persuade them to limit the punishment to something less than fatal.”

Keras rubbed his forehead. “I appreciate the thought, but I have no intention of being imprisoned for telling the truth. I’ll be leaving now.”

He turned back toward the door. The two guards stepped in his way, drawing steel.

Keras raised his hands to display empty palms. “Please don’t make this difficult. I’ll leave peacefully if you let me.”

“I’m afraid that won’t be possible.” Councilor Theas stepped closer to the edge of the platform overlooking the lower area. “But don’t worry, you won’t have to fight anyone. You won’t get the chance.” She pointed a hand at him. “Elias, bind him in the chains of authority.”

Shimmering green chains sprung up from the floor, surrounding Keras and enveloping him in an instant. They wrapped around his limbs, seemingly of their own will, and pulled together tightly. Shackles manifested around his wrists.

Keras turned his head toward Councilor Theas. “That was a mistake.”

He moved his arms apart. The chain connecting the shackles snapped first.

The other chains cracked apart as he moved, stepping closer to the door. “Stop him!” Theas yelled.

The first guard moved quickly, swinging his sword in a downward arc. Keras caught the blade his right hand, completely arresting the weapon’s movement. With a twitch of his hand to the side, the sword blade snapped.

Keras discarded the broken half of the sword blade in his hand while side- stepping a sword swing from the second guard, then spun to deflect a blast of lightning from a third attacker — my mother.

She’d floated down from the top floor onto the floor of the council chamber below.

“A lightning sorcerer? That’s more interesting, at least.” Keras smirked.

Mother! Oh, no...

It occurred to me in the following moments that I didn’t know exactly when this gem memory was from... and that I hadn’t heard from my mother in months.

Mother didn’t look as scared as I felt, though. In fact, she was grinning too.

She snapped her fingers, a crackling aura of lightning manifesting all around her. “You’re quick,” she remarked. “But unarmed? I don’t think you’re much of a threat.”

Keras raised a single hand, shaking it in a conciliatory gesture. “You’re right.” He kicked the now-unarmed guard that tried to grab him from behind, sending the man tumbling into a nearby wall. “Hold that thought.”

The other guard opted for a lunge. Keras side-stepped it without looking, spun, and grabbed the guard’s arm. Another smooth motion and Keras plucked the sword from the guard’s hand, seemingly without effort. As the guard stumbled backward, Keras advanced, twisting the weapon to use the flat of the blade. A wall of ice appeared between them before he could take a swing.

Keras turned just in time to deflect a hail of icy shards, nearly identical to the spell that Sera had used against Teft, but larger and more numerous. His stolen blade flashed crimson as he cut the chunks of ice apart, then flared with silvery light as he hopped atop the ice wall and looked at the source. Councilor Theas was enveloped in an aura of frost, still sending more icy shards in Keras’ direction.

He opened his free hand, running it across the blade of the sword. Fire trailed where his hand passed, igniting the edges of the weapon. He swung the sword in an arc, launching a burning crescent at Councilor Theas, but a blast of lightning from my mother smashed into the crescent, detonating the two attacks in the air.

Keras glanced back down at my mother, then back to Councilor Theas. “Two sorcerers? You certainly prepared for me.”

Councilor Lanoy cracked his knuckles. “Three, actually.” He traced a pattern in the air, leaving a glowing blue rune shimmering in front of him. “I would advise you again to surrender.”

The masked swordsman grinned. “Oh, you misunderstood me. I wasn’t complaining. I’m just starting to get interested.”

“A pity.” Councilor Lanoy pressed his hand into the glimmering pattern. It split apart into a series of spheres of mana that spread out and then rapidly converged on Keras’ location.

The swordsman spun to slice the first one with his blade, but it detonated before he managed to strike it, creating a rippling shockwave of force that sent Keras stumbling backward along the icy wall, right into more of the converging projectiles.

A dozen more blasts of blue-white light erupted as the spheres burst around Keras, blinding me for an instant with their intensity. When my vision cleared, Keras was still standing. His tunic was shredded and bloodstained, a hint of blood dripping from his lips. Burn marks were visible on his back.

He was grinning more brightly than ever. The aura around him flickered, then intensified, turning a silvery hue.

Keras vanished, reappearing next to Councilor Lanoy and driving a fist into the older man’s gut. A shimmer of silver and green erupted on the impact. The councilor folded around the punch, collapsing to the floor in an instant later.

“Elias, Warden of the Adamantine Wall, I summon you!”

Councilor Theas shimmered brighter green, a shimmering shroud of runes surrounding her as a metallic titan appeared on the floor below. The creature was roughly humanoid, but it must have been twenty feet tall, and it crackled with green energy that matched Councilor Theas’.

She summoned a golem, I realized, and a powerful one at that.

“Grab him, Elias!”

The golem was surprisingly fast for its size, reaching out with a massive hand to grab at Keras. He was still faster.

His sword shimmered silver. His hand blurred. Metallic fingers clattered to the floor below.

A moment later, Keras was running around the circle of the upper level, blindingly fast.

He paused in front of me.

I raised my hands. “I am just here to observe.”

Keras’ eyes narrowed underneath his mask for a moment, then he grinned and chuckled. “Fair enough.”

He blurred again, appearing in front of Elora.

She blasted him with a cone of ice at point-blank range.

For a moment, it looked like it had worked. Keras was completely enshrouded in frost. Within, however, I could see a crimson glow beginningto form... and then the ice burst apart.

Just in time for the golem’s other hand to punch Keras into the wall. For a moment, the room was still.

Then, inch-by-inch, the golem’s massive fist began to move backward. Keras was pushing it back with his off-hand.

“That,” he said, cracking his neck, “Actually hurt.”

His sword-hand twitched. The golem’s arm separated into two halves, which Keras pushed apart.

“Elias, I dismiss you.” Councilor Theas grimaced, waving toward the metallic creature.

The golem vanished.

She raised a hand again, a crimson aura appearing around her. “Vanniv, I—”

Keras appeared in front of her, his sword blade glimmering with a silveryaura. He pointed it at her chest. “That’s enough.”

Councilor Theas’ hands tightened into fists. “Very well. I concede your victory. I will withdraw.”

“Good.” Keras waved his empty hand. “And tell the group from Dalenos waiting outside not to bother sending reinforcements unless they have someone more powerful than you are.”

Theas looked like she was going to say something else, but she was interrupted by a blast of flame annihilating the floor below Keras and enveloping his entire form.

My mother had moved to the position just beneath him on the lower level and blasted upward. Since she was on the level below, he had no way to see it coming.

Keras hit the floor right in front of her, smoke trailing off his body. He was covered in scorch marks now; she’d obviously hurt him. But the burns weren’t nearly enough to account for the intensity of the flames. The shimmering aura around him must have provided him with some degree of protection, like a barrier.

He was in a kneeling position when he recovered from the blast. When his eyes reopened, I could see that his irises were silver, bleeding into his sclera.

When he stood, dusting himself off, he turned that silvery gaze toward my mother, standing only a few feet away. “Ah, yes. Sorry to keep you waiting. Shall we?”

He raised his sword and waited.

My mother drew the saber at her side. “Let’s.”

Keras moved first, but I could tell that only because of the position where their blades locked. His weapon had been stopped by her saber when it wasinches from her face.

Mother was the one smiling now. Keras frowned.

“Let me reintroduce myself. Laura Lyran. Councilor. Elementalist. And, perhaps most importantly, Emerald Swordmaster.”

Then she kicked him in the chest.

Keras took the kick with a grunt, stepping back in surprise, and losing his push on her weapon. Mother followed with a series of rapid strokes at chest level, her own movements too fast for me to follow, even with the Divination- enhanced vision.

Another of her strokes went low, but he kicked it aside, pressing forward with a thrust of his own. Mother batted it aside with her off-hand... which was glowing with electricity. The charge traveled through Keras’ weapon and into his arm. He winced, managing to maintain his grip, but barely dodged the follow-up swipe at his gut. It tore another line across his tunic and a crimson trail along his chest.

“Curious,” Mother mused. “Your shroud isn’t working properly.”

“I’d love to tell you all about it after you surrender.” Keras swung downward in a cut that should have come nowhere close to hitting her. His blade grew longer mid-swing, forcing my mother to make a split-second dance to her right.

Where his left fist was heading.

She took the punch with a wince and then struck him in the ear with a cupped palm.

Keras stepped back, grimacing, and shifted his stance to one I’d never seen. His right arm extended almost completely, the tip pointed toward my mother’s chest. It looked almost like an Edrian fencing stance, but I’d never seen one with the sword-arm extended so far.

The intent of the stance was clear enough. It left little of his body exposed, and his sword was in the way of any further attempts at getting close to him with a fist.

My mother stepped back, lowering into a standard defensive saber stance. Then she flicked a finger against the flat of her saber and a voltaic charge traveled along the surface of the blade, flickering back and forth from hilt to tip. As long as that electrical charge was on her blade, she could shock him on any contact between their weapons. I approved of the tactic; it made attrition her allyIt also made me deeply concerned.

Such a tactic would only be necessary if she knew she was at a disadvantage.

Keras took a step forward, pulling his arm back an inch. Mother moved her guard upward. Keras reset his stance.

A test, then.

Keras and my mother stood motionless for moments save for their eyes.

They were both searching for weaknesses, finding none.

With his focus on my mother, Keras didn’t see the injured guard crawling up behind him. With a nod to my mother, the guard grabbed Keras around the right leg.

Keras startled, turning his head. My mother lunged.

The masked swordsman twisted, trying to move out of the way, but the guard’s grip held. The blade caught Keras along the ribs, sending a charge of lightning into his chest. He stumbled back a step, finally managing to kick the guard and send the man tumbling across the floor.

Mother struck again. Keras caught her blade with his, but her blade was still charged with electricity. The lightning traveled from her weapon into his, searing his skin — but he didn’t drop the blade.

He pressed back harder.

Mother fell back a step, losing her stance for an instant. Keras’ blade flashed downward, driving Mother’s into the floor below. She pulled, but it was stuck.

Mother wasn’t done, though. She released her grip on the useless weapon and stepped inside Keras’ guard, slamming both hands into Keras chest. A blast of lightning launched him backward into the nearest wall.

Keras stood again.

His aura burned brighter. The air around him seemed to tremble as he stretched out his arms, readying his weapon to strike. His blade burned with a flare of silver, bright as a newborn star.

Then he smiled and tilted his head downward. “That was the most fun I’ve had in a while. I hope we’ll meet again.”

Then he turned and swung the burning weapon at the wall behind him, cleanly severing through the stone. With a punch from his other hand, the wall gave way... and then he was rushing out of the room.

My mother grit her teeth, taking a step toward the hole where he retreated, but the guard who’d helped her stood back up in her path. “Councilor Lyran, please help me see to the wounded.”

Mother’s eyes narrowed, considering, and then she nodded. “Of course.”

I was moving. I knelt next to the old man, Councilor Lanoy, and inspected him. Still breathing. Councilor Theas was already approaching as well. She looked exhausted, but uninjured.

I turned my head toward Councilor Theas. “He’s alive.”

“We were very lucky.” Councilor Theas knelt down at his side. “No,” My voice replied. “He chose to be merciful.”

My vision froze after that, shifting in a blinding instant back to my own eyes.

***I turned the gem over in my hand, trembling as I considered what I’d just seen.

Keras was there to meet with Tenjin, and they tried to arrest him. It follows that the ambush probably made Keras unhappy with everyone involved.

And Tenjin has been missing for weeks now. Resh. Did Keras hurt one of the visages?That would certainly explain why he was imprisoned in the tower if it was the case.

I frowned.

And Mother was there.

Mother fought against Keras, and she handled herself better than any of the others did. I knew she could fight, but... That was pretty impressive.

When’d she get a second attunement?That last part didn’t really matter. I was glad she’d made it out of there alive, but I’d barely talked to my mother since she’d left. While I certainly felt a pang of fear for her when I’d seen her there, now I was more interested in why she was involved.

She clearly knew more about Keras than I did if she’d was involved in an attempted arrest.

I was nowhere near ready to reconcile with my mother after years apart, but this gave me a very good reason to write her a letter. I needed all the information I could get.

Dear Mother,It’s been too long since we last spoke. Unfortunately, this letter is less about personal matters and more about a pressing concern.

I have recently become peripherally involved in a situation regarding a man named Keras Selyrian. I understand that you have also been somewhat involved in this matter, and thus, I would like to discuss things with you — either by missive or in person, at your discretion.

In specific, I am seeking any information about his present location and disposition. I hope you will be able to provide me with some insight.

I also hope you are well.

-CorinI handed the letter off at the courier station, paid them, and headed back to my room to ruminate for a bit.

It felt a little cold for the first message I’d sent to my mother in years. Still, she hadn’t exactly gone out of her way to see me, so any obligation I felt was tinged with bitterness.

When evening came, I dropped the memory crystal off in the spot Jin had indicated.

I had more questions than ever about this. Hopefully, my mother would have answers. In the meantime, I did have one more person I could ask.

***“Professor Orden, can we talk?”

Orden frowned at me, pushing a lock of dark hair out of her eyes. “Back so soon?”

I closed the door behind me before responding. “I have information to discuss,” I said, turning back to her. “Can we speak in a safe location?”

She sighed. “Very well.”

She walked over, placing a hand on my shoulder and muttering the words to her “Veiled Teleport” spell.

We appeared in that strange empty white space she’d taken me to before. My stomach still lurched as we teleported, but not quite as badly as last time. Maybe I was starting to acclimate to it a bit.

“Well?” Orden folded her arms.

“I managed to obtain a bit of information on Keras. He was in a confrontation with members of the House of Lords, who attempted to arrest him.”

Orden gave me an approving nod. “You managed to discover that a bit faster than I expected. Found out from your mother, I assume?”

I shook my head, only in the aftermath of making the gesture realizing that maybe I should have claimed that as my method. Well, too late now. “I obtained and watched a memory crystal of the event.”

She lifted an eyebrow. “Fascinating. I wonder how you managed such a thing? Oh, don’t tell me and spoil the fun. I’ll figure it out. I appreciate the update, but I knew about that event. Did you discover anything you think was relevant?”

“Well, he claimed to be there to meet with Tenjin, but the council stepped in to have him arrested.” I thought about that for a moment, then reconsidered. “Or, I should say, a few members of the council. I imagine that couldn’t have been everyone.”

“Quite right.” Orden folded her hands in front of her. “The Council of Lords currently has forty-five seats. That was a small affair that I believe the Adjutant arranged in cooperation with Dalenos’ authorities.”

Forty five seats? That was more good information for me to keep in mind for the future. “I wasn’t quite clear on that. They mentioned something about heresy?”

“Keras fled arrest in Dalenos after he made a public speech about the visages deceiving the populace about the state of the outside world.”

Yeah, that’d definitely count as heresy. “In what way did he claim the people were being deceived?”

“I didn’t hear all of it,” Orden admitted, “But it had something to do with the Tyrant in Gold not being as controlling as everyone thinks.”

Oh, dear. “I’m half-surprised that Katashi didn’t fly down and smite him on the spot.”

Professor Orden chuckled. “Well, it seems it did come to that eventually, didn’t it?”

“Or something like it. We still haven’t heard anything about what happened after the fight I witnessed... unless you have?”

She shook her head. “No, I don’t have any news on that subject. I will inform you if I discover anything pertinent, however.”

“Thank you. One more question, since you were already familiar with the incident I mentioned. Was that before Tenjin stopped showing up to Council meetings?”

“Right before,” she confirmed. “If you’re thinking that Keras went after Tenjin after he escaped and attacked him, that would be the prevailing hypothesis.”

Resh. And I’m the one that let Keras go free.

That means I have an obligation to help stop him if I can.

“Thank you, Professor. That’s all I needed to know.”

***My class the next day was Mana Manipulation, one of the two classes on my schedule that was only assigned to Enchanters. I was still distracted thinking about Keras and worrying about my mother, but the class was interesting enough to help get my mind off of it to some extent.

The best part was right at the beginning.

Professor Edlyn, the same teacher I’d signed my paperwork with right when I came out of the tower, was in charge of the class. She started us out with a simple instruction.

“Close your eyes and put your hand over wherever your attunement is located. Now, take a deep breath, and think about the passage of the manawithin your body. If you’ve ever used a runic item, think about how that mana flows out of you into the object. If not, simply try to picture a flow of energy within your body, emanating from your attunement mark.”

I followed her instructions, envisioning the familiar sensation of the dueling cane leeching mana out of my hand. I felt a twinge of phantom pain just from remembering the sensation.

“Now, say the words, ‘Detect Aura.’” I repeated the phrase.

“Open your eyes.”

I opened them. I immediately shut them again.

Everything had been glowing.

It was blinding. I blinked and blinked again, but the auras didn’t go away. From the murmurs of excitement and frustration around me, I wasn’t the only one experiencing it“If you’re sensing auras now, you’ve just activated your attunement. Different Enchanters sense auras differently; this appears to mostly be tied to the location of the attunement mark, but there is some variation. If you haven’t activated your attunement yet, we’ll try another method...”

She ran through a few more exercises until all of the students indicated that they were able to sense the auras around them. During that time, I gradually acclimated to what I was seeing around me.

Brilliant nimbuses of power, shimmering around every student. They varied in intensity from person-to-person, and each student’s aura seemed to emanate from a different spot.

Most students had colorless auras, just distortions around them that looked like waves of heat. A few of them had a crimson tinge to that aura. One student’s was already completely red. I assumed that meant he’d already hit Carnelian level. Impressive, considering we’d just started the school year.

Professor Edlyn had a shifting, multi-colored aura, clearly brighter and broader than those of the students in the room.

Mana. I’m seeing mana.

I chuckled in delight at the thought. Lifting my hand, I could see my own mana, a translucent field that seemed thickest within my right hand. The lack of color made it difficult to discern, but it distorted everything beneath it, like looking at something immersed in water. Of course, my most important mana source was the attunement on my forehead, but I couldn’t exactly see that without a mirror.

I thought that I could feel it, though. Maybe just a little, like a pool of warmth beneath my skin. I briefly felt a surge of dysphoria at the concept of mana occupying the same space as my brain. Sure, it was supposed to be anormal part of my biology, and I knew that, but it was weird.

“Now that you can perceive your mana, you should be able to shift a portion of it to another part of your body. This is the simplest Mana Manipulation exercise and one that serves as the foundation for dozens of others. You will need to be able to shift the mana within yourself to learn to shift it out of your body, and thus to empower runes.”

I proceeded to spend the next two hours trying and failing to complete this utterly basic task.

Over the following week, I tried again and again, but I just couldn’t get my mana to change. I assumed it was some sort of mental block; I’d heard of people who could alter their heart rate just by thinking about it, for example, and I couldn’t do that either.

It was just before the next Mana Manipulation class that I realized I had a way to cheat.

I kept my attunement disabled most of the time. Activating and deactivating it was as simple as closing my eyes and thinking about it. The words “Detect Aura” were just a shortcut for tricking our minds into doing what we wanted them to do, and different shortcuts worked better for different people. I didn’t need that one.

Since it was easy for me to perceive my own aura, I realized that if I wanted to move it on my own, I should try focusing on it while it was being manipulated by something else. Namely, while practicing with my dueling cane.

My next two dueling classes didn’t actually put me on the stage. They were focused around tactics and technique, with a few other students bearing the brunt of Lord Teft’s antics. I did, however, get permission to use a dueling dummy for practicing with my cane.

I turned on my attunement before I focused on the rune, activating my dueling cane the same way I had so many times before.

This time, I saw it. The essence flowing from my arm into my thumb, which triggered the rune. A second surge of essence from my hand into the body of the cane, then flowing out from the cane in a burst of concussive force. I saw an unfamiliar aura around the dummy before the strike impacted, and then a different aura manifest as the dummy’s shield activated, blocking the burst.

I tried again, and this time as the cane drew mana out of my hand, Ipushed.

More mana flowed out of my hand into the cane, charging it with power.

The force of ensuing blast tore the weapon right out of my hand.

The mana burst missed the dummy entirely, but dissipated harmlessly inthe air before it impacted anything.

I breathed a sigh of relief, even as my hand twitched in pain. I’d done it. My mana had moved.

It took me two more days to reproduce the ability to move my mana without the use of my cane, and even then, it was much harder. But, challenging or not, it worked... and that was enough.

Immediately after my next Mana Manipulation class, which discussed the basics of transferring mana from an outside source from one place to another, I attempted my first enchantment.

...Or some facsimile thereof, at least.

Normally, Lord Teft recharged our protective sigils before the beginning of each dueling class. Studying the sigil, I realized it was more complicated than I had originally expected. It had three main runes, each with a different function.

One, it had a persistent aura that detected if it was in close proximity to a person. This seemed to have a range of a few inches, so it could be worn on a garment that was over a layer of armor.

Two, it had a second persistent aura for detecting incoming attacks.

Three, it would create a barrier around the person it was detecting if an attack was inbound.

This made it much more mana-efficient than something that just continuously generated a barrier around whoever was wearing it, since maintaining a barrier for a long period of time had a high mana cost.

This also meant that the barrier could potentially be circumvented by finding things the detection spell did not classify as an “attack”. I’d have to study that. I didn’t want to hurt the other students, of course. I just figured it would be good to know what tactics potential threats might use against me, since the pin was my only real defensive tool.

The two detection functions used mental mana, which I was ostensibly specialized in. The third, the shield itself, used simple gray mana — which I also had a lot of.

That meant I could, in theory, recharge the item by myself. Or, eventually, I could make more on my own.

My first several attempts to recharge the sigil ended in failure.

The biggest problem was that I couldn’t force myself to move my mind’s mana. Most likely because even the idea of using mana from my brain terrified me.

Was I going to permanently damage my brain? Tear away my own memories? Kill myself outright?All of the above were possible if I used up too much of my mental mana. Iknew that, and I knew that other people still used their mental mana all the time without any difficulties.

I also knew it would get easier and easier once I got started.

I still couldn’t do it. I kept thinking back to what happened to my great grandfather.

Alaric Cadence had been the pride of our family. He was a war hero, famous for ending the Six Year War between Valia and Edria in a duel.

He was the one who elevated our family from merchants to the “Noble House of Cadence” as a reward for his victory.

He was the reason my father and my uncle had become duelists. They’d lived in his shadow, just as I always would.

And he had died without recognizing his own son’s face. He’d only been forty years old when it happened.

No hero was immune to the costs of war.

In Alaric Cadence’s case, the price had been subtle at first. He’d laugh about forgetting something simple, like where he’d put a piece of clothing. Absent mindedness that anyone could easily dismiss.

Forgetting a few faces of people he hadn’t seen in years? No problem.

By the time it was obvious that he was overusing his mental mana, he could barely care for himself. Our family spent every resource at their disposal seeking answers, but it was futile. No damage caused by the overuse of mind mana had ever successfully been repaired.

I had never met the man, but I knew his story. I saw it written in the face of my grandfather, every time he looked at Alaric’s portrait. I saw it in the way my father’s hands trembled when he prepared for a duel.

It had been my mother who actually told me the tale. Perhaps my father would have told me eventually. Or perhaps he was too afraid that his own life would end in the same way.

Grandfather remembered me last time I spoke to him, but I always worried that there would come a time when that would end.

The fear that story instilled was a part of me, something bone-deep that no level of rational thought could simply dispel. And, while I told my mind that I would not let fear break me, I didn’t have to.

All I had to do was bend — and the fear had won. The fear always won.

Ultimately, I ended up recharging the barrier part with gray mana successfully first. It was in that process that I realized that the item didn’t have a capacity-limiting rune like the ones we’d learned about in my permanent enchanting class. That meant, in theory, that I could overcharge it until it exploded.

That’d be bad.

Fortunately, I was able to compare the strength of the aura to what it had been when Teft had filled it up prior to my last class and easily get it into a similar range. I didn’t know what the tolerance was for error on refilling the item, but I figured it wasn’t something where a tiny bit of extra mana would make it burst and annihilate me.

I still erred on the side of “too little” mana, though.

After a day of rest, which was more than I strictly needed, I tried converting some of my gray mana in my right hand into mental mana to use for recharging the other functions. That would have circumvented my fear of using the mental mana directly from my brain.

I failed at that for the rest of the week.

During that time, I got a little more used to talking to Sera and Patrick again. Roland remained taciturn, but I saw him from time to time as well. I didn’t see much of Jin.

In the following week, I hoped to get a little more insight into my mana conversion problem in my attunement class. Magic theory class talked a lot about the ideas behind attunements, but the attunement class was where we learned more about the exercises and practical applications of all attunements.

Converting mana from one type to another was something every attuned would have to do eventually, so it was something we’d be practicing in there.

Unfortunately, that particular class ended up covering a lot of the same information that Professor Orden had about attunement levels, like Carnelian, Sunstone, etc. This time, it was in the context of focusing on how we could work our way from “Rank E Quartz” to at least “Rank B Quartz” before the end of the year.

Interestingly, the attunements teacher also confirmed something Orden had implied: people with multiple attunements could have completely different levels with them. Orden had called herself a Carnelian-level Enchanter, but she was conceivably much more powerful at illusions or summoning or whatever other strange attunements she had.

The power of an attunement corresponded to the amount of mana in that specific part of the body, so I’d have to train my mental mana in order to make my attunement stronger. That was going to be a problem.

The school only expects us to hit Rank B in Quartz by the end of the year, but I need to get all the way to Carnelian in a few months. That’s going to be a lot harder. Rank B in Quartz only requires about 25 mana, which seems very doable.

Getting to Carnelian, however, requires about 60 mana. I haven’t checked since that first time, but I’m still probably around 18. I’ve got a long way togo.

Professor Conway was a rust-bearded gentleman in a tweed suit whoseemed entirely engaged with his own lesson. Once the material he was covering started to become less familiar, I refocused my attention to it.

“The term ‘spell’ can be misleading, as it implies the use of words. However, only lung-marked attuned make judicious use of words for their magic. When a Guardian focuses their shroud around their hand before punching someone, the Guardian is using mana, and thus we classify that as a spell.”

He was surprisingly animated, despite the mundane subject. He emphasized each major term, like “spell”, and provided accompanying gesticulations. “Some academic institutions outside of Valia have begun to use different terminology for attunement-based abilities activated through other means. Others have simply replaced the word ‘spells’ with something more general in nature. For example, Edrians use a local word that translates to ‘techniques’.”

Several students made rude noises, and he paused to regain silence. Once he had it, he continued as though nothing had happened. “Now, you’re probably wondering what each of these attunements is capable of, hmm?”

There was a murmur of approval from the class at what I’d interpreted as a rhetorical question.

“Excellent, excellent. In today’s class, we’ll cover the basics of each of the local attunements. In subsequent classes, we’ll get into more details on the capabilities of each, as well as synergies with other attunements. We’ll also have an overview of the attunements of other regions, but you’ll have to wait for next year for details on those.”

The professor walked over to the chalk board at the back of the class room and began to draw. Aside from Professor Edlyn in my Mana Manipulation class, he was the only professor I’d seen use chalk.

I was sitting pretty close to the front, but it still took me a second to recognize what Professor Conway was drawing — the Guardian Attunement symbol. He finished it a moment later, keeping the chalk in hand.

“I’ll start with one of the most controversial: the Guardian. In old times, we didn’t think the Guardian had magical abilities at all, and the name is a legacy of that misconception. At first, we believed it merely passively enhanced the resilience of the Guardian. Thus, the name.”

He fell into a low martial arts pose of some kind, his chalk-hand extended forward. “As years passed, Guardians began to demonstrate seemingly magical abilities through martial arts. We understand these abilities far better now, and they are a way of manipulating mana as surely as hurling a bolt of fire would be for an Elementalist.”

A visible aura appeared around the professor as a swirling field of yellow- orange. Normally, I couldn’t see auras unless my attunement was active, so I assumed he was doing it deliberately.

The professor continued his explanation. “The Guardian accomplishes this by manipulating their shroud, a field of mana that surrounds their body. Normally, the shroud is equally distributed and serves primarily as a defensive field, but it can be focused on a certain part of the body. Either to defend...”

Conway flicked the chalk forward and it ignited in a burst of flame, vanishing a moment thereafter. “...or to strike. A Quartz Guardian will learn to use this to punch, kick, and block more effectively. At higher attunement levels, Guardians learn to extend their shroud to objects, or to push a specific type of mana through their shroud — just as I did a moment ago.”

He stretched, resuming a normal posture, and his aura faded. “Even at advanced levels, Guardians always focus on manipulating their shrouds. Thus, Guardians often learn traditional martial arts forms in addition to the techniques they study to focus their mana.”

That made sense. I was curious if specific motions triggered specific ‘spells’ or if it was more about just focusing their mind. I’d have to ask about that later if it wasn’t addressed directly.

He clasped his hands in front of him. “All attuned develop shrouds once they reach Carnelian status — but no other local attunement can manipulate a shroud to the same degree. There are, however, some foreign attunements, such as the Legionnaire—,” he turned his head, looking distracted. I heard it a second later.

A bell. No, bells — more and more of them, growing louder as the bells nearer to us began to chime.

Some students immediately began to stand. Conway unclasped his hands and held one out to forestall chaos.

“Students,” his voice was projected and clear, “please remain calm. The bells you’re hearing mean that there is an emergency situation within theschool. We will be heading to the nearest shelter, which fortunately, is quite close by. First row, please stand and head to the door, then await me outside.”

He had us file out of the room in an orderly way. Once we had joined other evacuating students outside of the classrooms, most of us were deathly silent, but I heard a few whispers.

“Dangerous,” said a few of them. “Scared,” was among the most popular. “Monsters,” was the most important.

I got the general idea.

Our school was probably under attack.

Given the fact that both Teft and Orden had shown a proclivity toward testing their students, I considered the possibility that this was just some sort of drill. There had been invasion drills at school when I was younger; that school had been close enough to the Edrian border to warrant them.

I discounted that possibility when I saw the winged figures in the air.

There must have been dozens — no, hundreds of them. They all shared some characteristics: wings, obviously, as well as vicious claws. Beyond that, though, I noted a variety of shapes and sizes of the flyers. Some looked almost humanoid, whereas others looked like giant birds or winged lizards.

Too many to be illusions.

How did they get this far?There weren’t any wild monsters near the city. That meant these creatures were probably from the spire, which was close by. Spire monsters almost never left home, though. I hadn’t heard of it happening in my lifetime, but there were stories. My father had a few of them. In general, the Soaring Wings took care of any small groups of monsters that somehow managed to follow someone out the tower gates — usually a fleeing climber who had gotten in over their head.

The other cases were cautionary tales.

Stories about vast waves of monsters, or a handful of titanic ones, exiting the tower to dispense the will of the visages.

If the Soaring Wings hadn’t stopped these monsters? That meant there were either too many for the guard to handle... or they’d let the monsters through deliberately, at the behest of a visage.

As I watched the first of the creatures descend from the sky, I pondered if my death would come at the hands of a creature serving the whim of the goddess my family had always revered.

And, as I followed in the line of students toward the nearest shelter, I wondered if I had caused the deaths of others by defying her.

More and more of the creatures began to descend on the school, butfortunately, none of them were near us.

“Mister Ross, lower your cane. Do not attack them. If one gets close, I will handle it,” Conway instructed. The student in question lowered his weapon, looking upset. I kept my hand near the hilt of my sword.

We were in one of the older parts of the university, which meant a lot of gray and brown buildings densely packed together. Presumably, this was before “décor” was invented. From a more practical standpoint, it meant we could easily be boxed in if those flying creatures decided to land on either side of us.

I probably wasn’t the only one who had come to that conclusion — the teacher was striding at a hurried pace. We found another class coming out of a different lecture hall after about a minute of walking, and I noted a familiar face among the crowd.

Patrick didn’t even take the time to make excuses to his class — he just wandered out and took a position next to me.

“Corin, Corin! Look!” He pointed to the sky, as if I could have somehow missed the cluster of monsters that were making the sun work hard to do its job. The students around us looked bemused by his exuberance, but I humored him and gazed skyward.

A hint of a coiled form, slipping quickly back into the clouds. It was hard to tell at a distance, but I was pretty confident that the small fraction of the creature I’d seen was larger than the lecture hall we’d just excited.

“That’s... bad,” I managed.

Patrick nodded sagely. “Yeah, but like, really exciting, right?”

I blinked at him as we continued to walk, passing another class. “I suppose that, in a way, you could call being potentially devoured by the God Serpent exciting.”

“Oh, no way, that’s not the God Serpent. It’s way too small.”

Small? That thing is about the length of a city block!He was nonplussed by my skeptical thoughts, continuing, “Oh, oh, I think that’s Mizuchi. Yeah, look at the purple tint on the scales on her belly!”

I glanced upward again, and yeah, some of the scales — each of which was about the size of a castle door — did have a lilac hue. Most of the other scales were silvery-white, like the ones I’d seen on the actual God Serpent in the tower. “Okay, I’m looking. What, precisely, is Mizuchi?”

“One of the God Serpent’s daughters,” he explained. “And man, she’s supposed to be vicious. They call her the ‘Hero’s End’, since she, you know...”

The other students around had stopped glaring and they actually seemed to be paying attention now. We were continuing toward the shelter at a steadypace, but I had no idea where that was located.

“I get the picture. Has she ever been outside of the tower before?”

Patrick shook his head. “Don’t think so. She’s a spire guardian, they rarely are found outside.”

I didn’t like the sound of that. “What floor of the tower does she guard?” “She’s not one of the ones that guards a floor. She goes where the visagewills, protecting things that we’re not supposed to see. In addition to ‘Hero’s End’, they call her the Guardian of Secrets.”

That sounded... really bad. A monster designed to serve a visage directly was going to be nearly invincible. The size of her was intimidating enough, but that knowledge made me all the more concerned that we lacked the firepower to repel her in a confrontation.

Looking up, though, I had to frown. There was no confrontation. The monsters weren’t raining fire from the sky, nor were the mages below firing bolts of lightning at the monsters above.

What was going on?“Patrick, do you recognize the other types of monsters up there?” He blinked at me, and then looked up. “Oh, yeah, why?”

“What are those things? Gargoyles?”

He made a ‘hmm’ sound, considering. “Yeah, a few of them, but not a lot.

Gargoyles are solid stone... like that one.”

Patrick pointed at a particularly monstrous looking creature, with a gator’s jaw and four massive arms. “Those are tough, but slow and not very smart. They’re just animated by magic. Those scalier ones, with the leathery wings? Those are urgoyles — they’re flesh and blood. Much easier to hurt, but smarter. And the ones that look like fashion models with wings? Karvensi. They’re tougher than gargoyles, as smart as humans, and a few of them even use magic.”

Looking closer, it looked like groups of the urgoyles and gargoyles were clustering around individual karvensi… which made things scarier when I realized the implication. They’re organized.

I saw one of the karvensi point a finger and a trio of urgoyles descended on a distant part of the school.

I really hope Sera is already in a shelter.

I can’t rely on hope in a situation like this, though.

“Patrick, do you know where Sera is?”

He shook his head, looking pained. “No, sorry. Haven’t seen her since the morning.”

Oh, resh. That’s bad.

A part of me wanted to break off from the growing crowd — more classeswere falling into columns near us — and search for her. I didn’t have any idea where to begin, though. More importantly, if these things were here for me, being near Sera might have actually put her in more danger.

I hoped she found one of the other shelters. They seemed like our best chances to survive.

Seeing Mizuchi’s shape dip below the line of the clouds again, though, I had to wonder if even the shelters would be enough.

We were approaching a large stone building and the teachers at the front of the lines were beginning to point and talk to each other. I couldn’t quite hear what they were saying, but I got the impression we’d just reached the shelter.

“Stop here,” Conway instructed. “There’s only one entrance, so the classes are going to file in one at a time. Don’t worry, there should be plenty of time—”

A figure slammed into the ground in front of the entrance, cracking the pavement. At least eight feet tall, with a wingspan broader than his height. His skin was dark gray like the stone of the gargoyles, but this was no cumbersome beast of rock.

A karvensi. Tiny rocks were floating in the air around him, and I thought I could see the crackling of electricity a few inches from his body.

“One moment,” Conway told us, then spun on his heels.

Students and other professors alike backed away from the creature as it stood up to its full height, stretching its wings.

Professor Conway walked right up to it, turning his head upward to meet the creature’s golden irises.

“You, sirrah,” Conway said, “are blocking our way.” The karvensi stared down at him, leaning in closer.

Conway stood up a bit taller. I could feel a pressure building in the air, like the tension between them was forcing the air out of my lungs.

It lasted several moments before the karvensi turned its head away, scanning the crowd, and then ducked and launched itself back into the air.

Professor Conway watched the creature depart, and then waved to another teacher. “Professor Vanway, you may lead your students inside.”

We cheered and clapped at the display, but Conway quickly silenced us with a gesture. “No time for celebrations. We will proceed in an orderly fashion.”

And we did. It took several minutes for each of the gathered classes to file inside. Once within the building, we were guided toward a stairway that led downward, into a large underground tunnel system. Runes flashed on the walls of the tunnels as we approached, lighting mana-burning lanterns thatlooked ancient and disused.

We began to pass doors on either side of the tunnel, but they were locked shut and covered with a broader variety of runic etchings. There were more there than I’d seen outside the doors of the tower itself. I wanted to stop and write them down for later study, but the crowd was moving at a steady pace.

We eventually reached a fork in the tunnels, taking the left passage, and proceeded through an open doorway into a huge chamber. Filled with wooden desks and benches, but with the walls covered with pristine tapestries symbolizing the various god beasts and visages, it reminded me of a cross between a mess hall and the audience chamber of a king.

There was no king here, however, nor any sign of Chancellor Wallace. Most of the few teachers gathered looked as nervous as the students, but Conway still looked taciturn.

There were students coming in through three other entrances to the chamber, but even so, those present only represented a fraction of the school’s population. I hoped there were several other safe houses — or whatever this was — throughout the school.

The teachers guided us toward seats. I scanned the crowd for Sera, Roland, and Jin, but I didn’t find any of them.

I was just about to take my seat when the room began to shake.

Dust and pebbles rained from the ceiling, and the tremors stopped as quickly as they had started.

Students exchanged nervous whispers. Patrick and I looked at each other, but remained silent.

This place must have magic to keep it stable in case of an attack, otherwise it wouldn’t have much of a point.

As much as I tried to reassure myself, though, the tremor had scared me more than even the sight of Mizuchi. Being crushed to death beneath thousands of tons of rock was not my idea of a good way to go.

I tapped my foot, trying not to contemplate the horrible ways this could end.

What am I doing here? Monsters I can deal with, but there’s nothing I can do if this place collapses.

I could hear a few people taking the situation worse than I was, crying into a friend’s shoulder or refusing to sit down.

A cluster of teachers had gathered near the front of the room, discussing in hushed tones. After a second bout of shaking, one of them stepped out of the circle. Teft.

He flickered, and then there was another Teft nearer to me. And another across the room... and a few more. They tapped their canes on the floor inunison, creating an echoing rap that silenced the students.

The original Teft was the one to speak, but I could hear his voice emanating from all of the others, presumably to make sure everyone in the room could hear him. A neat trick.

“Students. Do not be concerned. The creatures in the skies above us are all specialized in observation — that is, they’re not here for battle. They are simply looking for something. At this time, we do not believe that ‘something’ is a student. Once they find what they are searching for, they will most likely leave. That said, rest assured that the Valian military has been contacted and will be arriving here in full force within the hour.”

With that, his duplicates faded, and Teft simply turned his back and returned to the group of teachers. Student murmurs resumed a few moments later.

“An hour? You really think they can get an army here that fast?” Patrick looked about as nervous as I felt. His hands were clenched into fists.

I shrugged. “It’s not going to be the entire army. I think he was being hyperbolic when he said ‘full force’. A few thousand troops, though? Possible if they’ve got some sort of teleportation system set up, which they almost definitely do.”

Prior to the invention of trains, I knew some individual attuned used to serve as couriers via teleportation, but there were no teleportation-based mass transit systems. That probably implied that the enchantments were too costly to use regularly. Or perhaps that the military simply didn’t want teleportation to be easily accessible to the public, due to the potential dangers. If Valia was one of the only nations with access to teleportation, for example, it would be unwise to let it fall into the hands of other countries.

I really needed to study foreign attunements soon. I didn’t even know if other countries had anything equivalent to an Enchanter.

“Would the army really be able to stop those things, Corin? There were a lot of them up there. And Lord Teft, what he said about them scouting? That’s true for the little ones, but what about Mizuchi?”

I didn’t know what to say to that. Patrick seemed better versed in the monsters than I was. I’d focused on studying the Judgment specifically, and these kinds of monsters were from other parts of the tower. “I think we’re going to have to trust Teft on this.” It felt awkward to say that, considering how deceptive he’d been in class, but that extreme behavior was probably for our own benefit and amusement. Probably.

“Al... All right.” He stood up for a minute, looking around, and then sat back down. “I still don’t see the others.”

I’d sort of given up on that. “They’re probably in another shelter. We justneed to—”

There was a flash of light, and then a feeling of pressure. It was similar to what I’d sensed when Conway had faced off against the karvensi outside, but stronger. I could feel the source before I saw it — a floating figure in the center of the room.

A cloaked and hooded figure, the hood seemingly empty. I knew immediately what it reminded me of, but it wasn’t quite the same as the form the Voice had taken.

The robes were tattered and worn, but stitched with golden runes. It was huge; it would probably have reached fifteen feet in height if it had been standing straight. Instead, it hunched over, as if bearing an invisible burden.

I activated my attunement. My eyes burned from what I saw.

The floating creature radiated with malevolence. The aura was a sickly green, pulsating, extending several feet out in every direction from the monster’s body. I’d never seen an aura that felt so powerful.

Teft flickered and appeared below the creature with his cane raised a moment later, but he didn’t attack. His own aura was brilliant gold. The hooded figure continued to hover in the air, a good twenty feet above Teft’s position.

I saw Conway hop onto a table, too, but he didn’t seem to have teleportation magic; he made his way closer at a running pace. He glowed with a field of yellow-orange.

I deactivated my attunement. The sheer number of auras in the room was making my head swim.

The cloaked figure turned its head, scanning the room. I saw no face within the cowl, consistent with the experience I’d had with the Voice.

Nearby students had risen from their tables and were beginning to scatter, and I heard a scream or two. One student even fired a bolt from a dueling cane at the thing, but the attack glanced harmlessly off the creature’s robes.

The hooded figure turned, glancing at the source of the attack. I saw the student wither at its gaze, taking a step backward... and then his dueling cane snapped in half. No action was visible from the cloaked figure or the student— it just broke apart.

The student retreated into the crowd and the hooded figure turned away.

No other students risked an assault.

Conway finally reached the center of the room, hopping onto a table next to Teft. I could see another professor nearer to the back of the room standing on another table — was that Meltlake? I couldn’t tell, she was too far away.

I hoped it was. If a battle broke out, I didn’t think any one of the other professors had the kind of firepower that Meltlake did.

And, just like it had appeared, the creature unceremoniously vanished. I felt little comfort at that.

Clearly, if some of these monsters could teleport, our little hiding spot was not secure. The teachers must have sensed that, too. I saw Teft clench his fists as the creature vanished, then begin to draw on the table below him with his cane.

Making runes? Something to block enemy teleportation, maybe?I watched with interest, but Teft was too far away for me to see any details.

The next several minutes were tense, until Chancellor Wallace appeared on a table near Teft, flanked by a pair of soldiers. Teft walked over to the chancellor and exchanged words.

Chancellor Wallace moved to the center of the room, waving a hand and creating a glowing golden symbol in the air. I’d never seen anything quite like it. It bathed the chamber in a warm, comforting light.

“My students.” Her voice sounded like it was coming from right next to me. That was an even better trick than Teft’s. “We have determined the cause of the monster incursion and addressed the issue. They will be returning to the tower shortly. We will keep you down here for another couple hours, just to be certain that the school is completely cleared of any potential threats, but the problem appears to be resolved.”

Most students seemed relieved. Even I was, in spite of my concerns...

...Which made me suspect that the symbol in the middle of the room was more than just a pretty glowy thing.

Mind magic. Something to soothe us.

It made sense; she’d want us to be calm and prevent any further problems.

But there was clearly something wrong. The problem appears to be resolved? What is this ‘problem’ she’s being so vague about?I had a few ideas.

Keras Selyrian was at the top of the list.

If he’d escaped the tower, I’d bet anything that Katashi would be sending monsters to figure out where he’d gone.

I didn’t know how to feel about that.

I’d more or less sided with Keras in that conflict, but I still knew virtually nothing about him. He was a foreigner, obviously. He might work for the Tyrant in Gold, but I couldn’t be sure about that. It was only a rumor.

It had been my instinct to protect Vera and the child — who I also knew virtually nothing about — that had made my decision. Katashi seemed like he was perfectly happy to leave me alone.

But why was Katashi even in this tower in the first place?The Serpent Spire was Tenjin’s territory, not his. Were they working together on something?I needed answers and, even more than those, ways to protect my friends. I was done with being idle.

I seethed in silence for the remaining hours before they sent us back to our rooms. Classes were cancelled for the day, and for the following day.

That was good. I had work to do.

