CHAPTER X — COMMISSIONS

As soon as we were released, Patrick and I went to check on Sera. We found her back at her room, unharmed and unconcerned. We were both pretty relieved.

After that, Patrick and I parted ways to head back to our own dorms. I found Jin right outside our dorm building. He wasn’t hurt, either, but he was in an even less talkative mood than usual. Maybe he was a bit shaken by what had just happened. If so, I couldn’t blame him.

When I made it back to my room, I was surprised and relieved to see that the ceiling had already been fixed. Maybe the academy guard had seen the hole and sent in the request, or maybe Professor Orden had handled it herself in spite of her protestations. I’d find out later, but for the moment, I had a more pressing priority.

I opened a very familiar book and began to write.

Dear Voice of the Tower,Residents of the tower are currently scouring the Lorian Heights academy for something. One of the creatures I saw looked a great deal like the form you used in the tower, but bigger. Was that you? Are you here?-CorinMy heart pounded while I waited. I had no evidence that the Voice was outside. Its name implied that it probably wouldn’t be... but the similarity between that robed figure and the form the Voice had chosen was worth investigating.

I didn’t get an immediate reply. I ended nervously skimming through some of my text books and periodically checking back until I finally saw a response a few hours later.

Dear Corin,So formal. I preferred “Mysterious Book Entity”.

The creature you speak of was not one of my forms, however, I do have a limited presence outside of the tower at this time. Communicating through this method has limitations, however, and I will not be able to speak with you regularly.

The creatures loosed from the tower were not under my command. Steps will be taken to ensure this does not occur again, but you must play your own role in fixing a problem you helped to create.

How much does Lyras know? Yours,BookMy hand trembled as I pondered my reply.

The Voice is nearby and he holds me responsible for part of this. That can’t be good.

I guess this more or less confirms that freeing those prisoners started this situation. Or at least contributed to it.

At least maybe I can finally get some more information, though.

I told her about Keras being loose in the tower, his conflict with Katashi, and your instructions for her to meet with you.

Good. Does she know about the book?I haven’t told her, but she does seem to be watching me fairly closely.

Should I tell her?Under no circumstances. If she finds the book, I will handle the situation. For now, it is best if she simply meets me in the tower at her soonest convenience.

I bit my lip. Well, that’s not suspicious or anything. If she’s one of his contacts, why not share the existence of the book? What’s the significance of it?I will keep the book hidden. I could use some guidance about this situation in general, though. Why was the tower sealed to prevent anyonefrom exiting? Is Katashi guiding those creatures? Are they looking for Keras? For Vera? What should I be doing if I see one of them?Don’t worry, Corin. Lyras and I will handle things from here. If this is not resolved by the time you enter the tower again, I will provide you with further instructions. In the meantime, focus on making yourself strong enough to survive.

-Mysterious Book EntityI set the book down. The chastising tone signaled a clear enough end to the conversation.

I hated being kept ignorant, especially when I was being blamed for something. If he, she, or it wanted to leave me out of things, I’d have to find my answers through other means.

Before even that, though, it was long past time I started properly protecting my room.

I spent the next few hours shopping. The first few things I picked up were mundane: a chain for the door to replace my wooden plank; tools to fasten the chain on; and bell to ring if the door was somehow opened.

After that, it was time to finally pick up some enchanting supplies. As it turns out, I couldn’t afford many of them.

I had a total of twenty-two silver sigils after saving a little bit of money from the first week, my stipend from the subsequent two weeks, and the handful of coins that Professor Orden had given to me. As an Enchanter, I’d eventually get some materials to work with for class, but not until later in the year.

There were three enchanting supply shops on the main campus, and one in the “old university” area nearer to the tower. Of them, the ones on the main campus were all similarly priced. The one in the old university was more expensive, but had a broader variety. Apparently, climbers often sold their findings from the tower there, and the shopkeeper resold them at a profit.

I spent the most time in that old university shop, the “Climber’s Court”. The title came from the place’s function as a meeting place for Climbers, as well as serving as a general store for supplies needed for tower expeditions. Almost everything there was outside of my price range, but I spent four silver sigils on a lesser mental mana crystal in exchange for permission to copy down the runes on the magical items that were being sold there.

The shopkeeper, a retired climber named Lars Mantrake, was happy to regale me with the stories he’d heard from the adventurers who sold him the items — or, in some cases, the ones he’d picked up personally as a youngerman.

He had a lot of inventory. That meant a lot of runes to copy.

I could have found most of the same runes in the books in the library, but there was a big advantage to studying them on actual items. By looking at the items with my attunement active, I could see the exact proportions of mana that were used in each individual rune. That made it much easier to conceptualize than just looking at “22.7 units of gray mana” in a stuffy tome.

By the end of that week, I’d managed to recharge my shield sigil by transferring mana out of the lesser mental mana crystal I’d purchased. It was a huge victory for me, the first time I’d successfully moved mana from something other than myself into an item.

Somehow Jin, being the creepy and amazing guy that he was, seemed to know about it immediately. He confronted me after classes at the end of the week.

“Corin. You have been studying creating magical items.” I nodded. I was an Enchanter; it was a safe admission. “I’d like you to make some for me.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. Commissions? I hadn’t even made an item on my own yet. “What sorts of items?”

He handed me a list.

There were nearly thirty items on it.

“Uh... I know I owe you a couple significant favors, but this may be a little bit beyond my abilities.”

“Why is that?” he asked, brow furrowing. He didn’t look angry, just some combination of confused and frustrated.

I wasn’t exactly going to admit I hadn’t managed to make an item completely by myself yet. That, while perfectly reasonable at this point in the year, sounded embarrassing in my head.

“I don’t have anywhere near enough materials, nor the means to afford them,” I said instead. That was just as true.

“I can secure materials. What do you need?”

That warranted raising both eyebrows, but quickly turned my attention back to the list.

Item that allows for creation of aura of shadows. Item that allows for invisibility at will.

Item that removes sound from movements.

...

It wasn’t exactly how I would have would have listed things, but Iunderstood the goals, at least.

These were not exactly simple things to build.

I read a little further, beginning to sense patterns.

Item that allows for the projection of an illusory self. Item that allows for the detection of invisible targets. Item that enables the wearer to see through walls.

Item that allows the wearer to see in the dark.

Most of the items were themed toward subterfuge and detection, but some of them were awfully specific. Specific like the kinds of things you’d be expected to demonstrate in a class for a certain attunement.

I folded the list. “You want to be able to fake having other attunements.” “Yes.”

I was surprised by the confirmation. “...Why?”

“I’m taking the classes for three different attunements,” he admitted. “I must successfully meet the requirements for each of them.”

Well, that certainly helps support my “Jin is obviously in Spider Division” hypothesis.

It was tempting to ask him about Spider Division more directly, but I decided that it was probably more polite to be more discrete, at least for the moment. He would have volunteered that information if he’d wanted to.

I raised a hand to my chin, considering. “This is so you can keep it secret which attunement you actually have?”

“Good,” he said, voice wry. “You understand.” His lips twitched upward, but only for a moment before he looked away.

Well, I understood what he was going for, but I still didn’t understand whyhe needed to do that.

Something about his searching for Spider Division, maybe? I’d almost forgotten about that in the face of the much more serious problems at hand.

I tried looking at his aura with my attunement; I couldn’t resist. All it took was a blink.

Nothing. No aura.

Was it possible they’d let him into the school without an attunement? I doubted that very seriously.

That meant he was either already wearing an item that blocked my vision— very possible — or he had an attunement that did the same. The Shadow Attunement, maybe.

“Okay. You said you could get materials, but this is going to require a lot of them. Some of these enchantments are not going to be trivial, and I maynot be able to complete them all immediately. I don’t even know if they’re all possible at my level of expertise; some of them might be Carnelian-level or higher.”

“I understand,” he replied. He looked me in the eye, and his expression held something like relief as he said, “I trust you will complete this to the best of your ability.”

I... still hadn’t accepted, but sure. He was so earnest with the request that I couldn’t really refuse. “If I write down the materials that I need for each of these, you can get them somehow?”

“Yes,” he replied simply. “How?”

He folded his hands in front of him. “My family is Dalen.”

I’d figured he was from another kingdom from his appearance, but that didn’t explain the resources in itself. “I’m not sure I understand. You’re from Dalenos  Why does that matter?”

He shook his head once. “No. House Dalen.”

Oh, goddess. The royal family of Dalenos. “You’re... oh. Like a prince or something?”

He twisted his lips, looking uncomfortable. “No. Not precisely. I would rather not explain. Suffice to say that I can provide what you need for the items.”

That put things into a very different perspective. “...I don’t suppose you might be able to get any extra resources for my own projects, since I’m going to be making you so many things.”

He frowned. “You mean more materials?”

“Yes. To practice, and to make myself some items for my own classes.”

Jin looked away for a moment, his face considering. He turned his gaze back to me. “So long as you do not sell them. If you are making things for your own use, this would be acceptable.”

Huh. “That’s what I planned, but can I ask why you’d make that requirement?”

Jin nodded, looking serious. “The people here... you see the souls of monsters as currency. To us, they are the spoils of victory and sacrifice within the tower. To enchant is to bind the soul of an enemy for your benefit.” He paused, then his eyes widened and he hurried to continue, “This is an honorable task if done for one’s self, or for an ally.”

His expression hardened, “But to sell the spoils of bloodshed for coin?That’s an insult.”

He thinks monster cores are souls?...actually, that makes an awful lot of sense.

If monsters are essentially mana constructs, and the core is the mana that remains when it dies... it sort of is analogous to a soul, isn’t it?But the cores aren’t alive or intelligent — at least as far as I know. The core is more like a corpse than a soul.

Probably.

It was a little bit of a disturbing idea, but something I could investigate later.

I extended my hand and he clasped it on the wrist. A very traditional gesture. “I believe we have a deal.”

***It took me another week just to look up the enchantments that Jin wanted, look up the necessary component runes, and then look up the materials necessary for said runes.

I couldn’t make more than two thirds of them, even if I had the materials.

The enchantments were just far too far outside of my skill range.

When possible, I suggested alternatives for these. Instead of invisibility, a weak blur effect. Instead of entirely cancelling sound, a simple dampening enchantment, like the one Professor Orden had used outside my room.

It wasn’t satisfying to tell Jin that I couldn’t do most of them, but when I marked down that several of his requirements were Carnelian or even Sunstone level, he understood.

We worked out a new list from the alternates, resulting in a total of eight items I’d have to make.

It was during that process that I learned another important limitation: magical items had a tendency to interfere with other items in close proximity to them. It was something that made a lot of sense, since they’d have overlapping auras, but I hadn’t thought about it a great deal until I started considering the practical implications of trying to fake three different attunements at once.

It didn’t help that Jin wasn’t willing to tell me which attunement he actually had. That would have saved me a lot of work. But it made sense; anyone knowing was a vulnerability in his plan. I suspected the teachers had to know what he was up to, but they were a lot less likely to tell than a student.

By the middle of the fifth week of classes, Jin had delivered the materials for the first set of items he’d requested, as well as a handful of small crystals for me to use for my own experiments.

That handful of crystals would have cost, by my estimates, about eight times more than my meager stipend up to that point in the year. I was pretty pleased.

The enchanting itself, however, was a lot of work.

Having an attunement on a part of my body that I wasn’t willing to use made everything inefficient. Channeling the mana from a single small crystal into a rune only took me a few minutes, but it also drained some of the mana in my own hand, which was used to facilitate the transfer. That meant I needed to wait hours between each enchantment, just to recuperate the mana I was using.

Since my attunement was linked to my mind, that mana would have regenerated much faster — about four to five times faster, according to my books. But the more I thought about the possible side effects, the more I worried the harm I could cause if I did anything wrong.

It was the end of my fifth week when I finished my first enchantment, a copy of the standard university shield sigil, etched into the inside of my room’s door. I’d need to recharge it periodically, but it felt amazing to power a rune myself for the first time and see it flicker to life.

I was working magic. For the first time, I felt like my attunement was real, something to be proud of. I basked in that for a little while, even as my hand throbbed from the effort of moving the last bit of mana into the runes.

It was great finally having that simple defense in place, but it also made me think about how many other defenses were missing.

I had a lot of work to do.

***Patrick and I were on our way to dueling class when I noticed something unusual. I stared at the machine blankly for a moment, not quite processing what I was seeing.

“Is that... an automobile?” I pointed at it as I spoke, and Patrick turned his head.

“Oh, wow. I’ve never seen one!”

We both walked a little closer to the horseless carriage, which was a simple open-roofed design. It was parked at the moment, and there was already a growing crowd of other students standing around it. It would have been easy to mistake for a normal carriage that simply didn’t have horses attached if it wasn’t for the metallic pipe jutting upward from a box on the rear.

We approached in spite of being dangerously close to being late to class. It was just too interesting to miss.

“...and this one’s engine is powered by a combination of three types of mana, primarily motion. Unfortunately, the operating drain is too fast for it to refill itself, so we have to periodically refill the mana chamber. We use liquid mana for this model, but they have a few crystal-run models in Caelford.”

The speaker was a tall, black-skinned gentleman with an attractive suit and wide-brimmed hat. He was leaning back against the vehicle, near the wheel. From his accent and skin, I assumed he was a Caelford native, which also helped to explain how he had the wondrous vehicle.

The Caelish were famous for their mechanical achievements, including inventing trains nearly a century ago, and more recently these automobiles. I’d heard stories that they even had ships that could sail through the skies... I was interested in seeing one someday.

How’d he get the automobile all the way here? Did he drive across the continent?I’d never heard of anyone making the trek all the way from Caelford in a small vehicle like this. The broken lands between Caelford and Valia were inhospitable at best, and rarely traversed before the advent of the railway. Maybe he was an inventor and constructed one here?I tried to get close enough to the engine area to inspect the runes, but there were too many other students in the way.

The speaker laughed. “I wasn’t expecting this much attention. You kids have good eyes. If you like what you see, I’d start saving up now. I’ll be bringing the first ones to market around the time you graduate. And if you want a slice of the profits, I am looking to hire a few extra hands...”

I blinked. He was going to be selling automobiles? That seemed like a positively decadent product. A vehicle that ran on liquid mana had to cost an exorbitant amount to both build and maintain. Still, I had to acknowledge that it sounded like a smart strategy if he could build them himself. The wealthy would probably bid extraordinary sums to be among the first few Valian citizens to own one. It would be a symbol of success, and my fellow nobles loved those.

He started handing out trade cards to some of the students. Those were yet another rarity, here in Valia. I’d seen a handful of them in my life, but printing them was too expensive to be worthwhile for most small scale merchants.

I took one and glanced at it. Most of the card was text, but it was accompanied by a colored image — another sign of great expense — of the gentleman himself holding a stylized key.

Aloras Corrington Corrington CarriagesAll models and varieties availableEarly orders for our unique mana-carriages available — inquire at our office!Offices at 12 Edinger Lane in BeaufortI didn’t recognize the address, but Beaufort was the name of the city right outside of the academy. That helped explain why he was marketing his business right here. A number of the students and professors would be wealthy. If he was the first person producing automobiles in Valia, he stood to make a tremendous profit.

Corrington? That name sounds familiar somehow...

I marked his name down on a list of people I’d consider working for if I needed to make some money during my second year. A “mana engine” undoubtedly would require Enchanters to work on it, so I’d probably be a good candidate for one of the assistants he was looking for. He’d probably need alchemists to make fuel, too... Learning how to do that would be useful.

I was still daydreaming about how I’d go about making an engine from scratch when we arrived at dueling class. Fortunately, Lord Teft arrived even later than we did.

Unfortunately, he was also carrying a large unlabeled box. Teft had toned down his antics from directly assaulting students down to merely pairing us up for progressively stranger forms of practice, but from his smirk, I could tell this was probably going to be worse than usual.

Teft lowered the box, dropping it the last few inches for a heavy ‘thud’. “Today’s lesson is one of the most critical things you will ever learn.” Right, just like every other lesson. Got it.

Teft sat on top of the box, folding one leg over the other. “By now, unless you’re particularly daft, you’ve picked up on the fact that the world has a large number of different types of mana, and each attunement only has access to a few. In a duel, you need to understand how to properly counter any type of magic you encounter.” He thrummed his fingers on the box, scanning the class as he spoke.

“In most cases, your best solution when a spell is hurtling at you is to get out of the way. This is not always practical, however, especially in enclosed spaces or for particularly quick spells. Thus, it is important to know how to counter them. There is a simple rule that I expect you to commit to memory: ‘Like deflects like, opposites nullify.’”

That actually was interesting information, if it was true.

After a moment of silence, he waved a hand expectively. “Repeat the phrase, class. Like deflects like...”

“Like deflects like...,” we droned, out of sync. At least it wasn’t as bad as when we tried to sing the Valian anthem. I shuddered every time I remembered that cacophonic dirge.

“Horrible, but good enough, I suppose. Now, what does that actuallymean? A sufficiently powerful spell constructed of the same type of mana as an attack will deflect the offending spell onto a different trajectory. A spell is weakened from the impact and may lose cohesion, dispersing entirely. This is why you rarely see simple bolts from dueling canes bouncing off of shields. If you want to guarantee that you’re going to nullify a spell entirely, however, you don’t use the same type of mana — you use the opposite.”

That was interesting. I’d always assumed some opposing mana types trumped others. I would have guessed that fire would evaporate water, but when I thought about it, I supposed that water was equally good at dousing fire. It probably came down to the magnitude of the effects themselves.

Teft stood up. “For countering spells of varying types to be practical, you will need to learn each type of mana and its opposite. I’m not going to teach you here. You can read a book. In the meantime, we’ll do something more practical—”

Someone had made the mistake of standing to indicate she had a question. It took me a moment to realize it was Marissa, who probably should have known better. Then again, she was also the most likely to survive if Teft didn’t like what she had to say.

“What happens if two spells collide that aren’t the same or opposites? Fire and lightning, for example.”

Teft groaned. “Not important for the current lesson, but if you must know, they generally explode. The interactions between non-opposing mana types are more complex. There are charts. But you shouldn’t be worrying about that, because you shouldn’t be using those types of mana to counter each other. Like deflects like, opposites nullify. There are precious few scenarios where you will need to know anything else.”

I could think of several.

I had only a very limited number of types of mana at my disposal, so knowing which ones I could use to counter enemy spells without detonating myself would be useful. Teft’s lessons, as usual, were more applicable to Shapers and Elementalists — both of whom had immediate access to more combat-focused magic than I did.

“Now, if we’re done with asking—”

Sera stood up.

“Ah, a Cadence has decided to disrupt the class again. Yes?” I smirked. At least we were making ourselves stand out.

Sera matched my expression, apparently unbothered. “What’s the opposite of gray mana?”

Teft folded his arms. “Doesn’t exist. Now, questions are over. Onto the box.”

There’s no opposite to gray mana?That sounded... wrong. I mean, if gray was some kind of combination of all the types of mana, maybe it was true. Still, it felt like everything should have an opposite. I’d have to look into that later.

The teacher stood, reaching down to a lock on the side of the box and flicking it. The lock came free, and he opened the top. “Line up. You’re each getting a new cane for today’s lesson.”

We formed a line, and then approached one at a time. Teft handed each of us a long cane, similar in style to his own. It had two runes on the handle, similar to a standard dueling cane, but no evidence of a blade within.

As he handed each of us a cane, he also paused to check the status of our shield sigils and refill them. He must have an absurd amount of mana if he can refill the sigils for an entire class without any sign of effort — at least a couple hundred? I’m going to have to research what the upper limits on human mana look like, that seems pretty high.

Once we each had a cane, he gave us a brief warning not to do anythingwith them yet, and then waved for us to follow him.

He led us to an unfamiliar single-story building of solid stone. Within was a large arena. It was probably about a hundred feet across, maybe thirty feet wide.

There were white lines painted on the floor, dividing the room into thin, rectangular sections like the lanes in a swimming pool. Or, more like a race track, given how thin they were. I didn’t think we’d be having a footrace in class but, given Teft’s unpredictability, I could never be sure.

On the far side of the room, I saw about a half a dozen people sitting behind a table. They looked a little older than us, but not old enough to be teachers. Either recent graduates or second year students, then. Judges, maybe?I hadn’t had to do any dueling with a judge yet — not unless that first spar with Teft counted. It was a bad time for me to jump into a duel. Most students were going to have picked up a few tricks with their attunements by now, but I didn’t have any useful enchanted equipment yet. I was basically in the same situation that I would have been on day one, aside from maybe having a bit more mana from daily practice.

“Split up into two even groups and face each other. Team one is going to stand here.” He pointed to a line near one wall. “Team two should be opposite them. Each of you should be standing within a lane.”

As we followed his instructions, the people on the other side of the room stood from their chairs and started heading our way.

There was nothing saying I couldn’t be strategic, so I tried to positionmyself opposite from a student I thought I could handle. Unfortunately, virtually all the students I knew personally had an advantage against me. I paid more attention to students that I knew would be a major threat. I hadn’t bothered to examine the others as extensively.

I used that to narrow the field, setting myself opposite from an Elementalist who I hadn’t seen do anything impressive yet. Elementalists had a lot more firepower than I did, but ultimately they were among the most predictable duelists. I had to hope I could anticipate his actions sufficiently to compensate for my lack of flexibility.

Teft moved to the center of the room to speak. “In your hands is a practice version of a war cane. The lower rune is used to project a slow-moving orb of gray mana with about three times the power of a standard blast from a dueling cane. The upper rune charges the top portion of the war cane with gray mana, similar to the blade on a dueling cane, but not suitable for direct attacks. It has a different purpose. If you haven’t figured it out by now, you haven’t been paying attention.”

Deflection.

He’s setting us up to play a ball game with real weapons.

As dangerous as that sounded, it actually made me more confident. If the whole idea was to project and deflect things from the cane, that meant we probably wouldn’t be using our attunements, which would significantly improve my odds.

“The rules are simple. Once we begin, you will commence firing at the team opposite you. You can attempt to deflect your opponents’ orbs with your own, or by activating your cane and physically knocking them out of the way. No offensive spells, this is cane practice. Your only weapons are the canes from the box. You can, however, use any defensive abilities at your disposal.” He turned around, looking at the other side of the room. “You’re disqualified once you’re hit by three orbs. When that happens, step to the safety of the ring. The judges,” he pointed at the older students, “will remind you if you’ve taken three hits. I will be activating a barrier that will preventany stray projectiles from exiting the battlefield and hitting bystanders.”

Teft began walking out of the field. “You’ll be scored both based on hits you land, deflections, and how long you last. Survival is the most important of the three.”

Lord Teft pointed to the boundary of a lane. “One last thing. You must remain in your lane until someone adjacent to you has been disqualified, at which point you may move if you chose. Oh, and if I didn’t make this clear enough before — you’re all starting at once.”

I stared blankly for a second after that line, picturing what was going tohappen as soon as two lines of twenty students opened fire and began deflecting projectiles.

Utter. Chaos.

I should have guessed that Teft’s idea of dueling practice couldn’t possibly be as simple as a duel.

From the murmuring around me, I could tell that others shared my opinion. The student on my left was clinging to his cane like it was the last piece of driftwood in the ocean.

Oh, Patrick was on my right. That was good.

He nodded in acknowledgement when I noticed him, looking grim.

I was displeased when I realized that Marissa was on the opposite end of the field.

With defensive skills allowed, attunements like hers had an advantage. She could potentially deflect projectiles with a bare hand without needing to rely on a cane or her barrier. I didn’t know her personal capabilities, but some Guardians could cover their entire bodies in mana. If she could do that, she’d be practically invincible in this test.

I didn’t have much more time to assess the competition. Teft stepped out of the lines, knelt down, and muttered a few words. The lines behind us marking a rectangular field began to glow, illuminating the barrier he’d activated. There were no barriers between the lanes themselves, though.

The lanes implied that we were expected to start out by firing at the person directly across from us, but that wasn’t necessarily the best strategy. Most people would probably fixate on their direct “opponent” on the opposite side of the lane. Maybe I could get Marissa out early by taking her by surprise...

But I didn’t want to risk it. There were better gambles to make than trying to attack the strongest opponent immediately.

“Begin.”

The word was too soft to be an appropriate signal for the insanity that followed.

I didn’t bother trying to make a first strike. Instead, I shifted my feet into a dueling stance, presenting a smaller profile for my target. As he raised his cane and fired, I flicked the upper rune on my cane. The sharp pain that accompanied the activation indicated that it was taking more mana than my normal cane did, but that was to be expected.

I didn’t expect how quickly the glowing sphere would be coming at me, though.

It was slower than a dueling cane’s blast, certainly, but it wasn’t slow. I raised the cane to try to parry, but my reaction was stunted by the pain.

The sphere impacted harmlessly against the wall on my right, hopelessly off-target.

I was so relieved that I entirely missed the other sphere, coming from a completely different opponent. It was inches from hitting me when a blast from my right knocked it clear out of the way and into one of the sides of the arena.

I turned to my right, giving Patrick an incredulous look. He was already back to facing forward, in a dueling position of his own.

“Focus up, Corin. You can thank me later.”

I gritted my teeth, nodded, and slipped back into my dueling stance. I didn’t think I’d ever seen Patrick look so serious about anything — and if even he was taking this seriously, I had to do the same.

I took a deep breath, closed my eyes for a moment, and then exhaled.

Mana glowed around me, almost blindingly bright — but with my attunement active, everything felt clearer, easier to take in. As the energies surged around me, I felt aware of the spheres that were coming my way, even if I couldn’t see them. With a simple flick of my wrist, I sent an incoming sphere out of my way... and directly into a team member on my left.

“Minus one point from Corin Cadence for friendly fire,” a student intoned behind me.

Resh.

The student that I’d hit rubbed at his arm, giving me a nasty look.

Fortunately, it wasn’t someone I knew.

“Sorry!” I shouted. I meant it, too. I might have even blushed.

Okay, taking this seriously, step two. No more hitting my team.

My direct opponent fired another projectile at me, this time much more accurately. I stepped to the side, firing a sphere at the floor inches in front of him. Just as I suspected, the floor was charged with mana to prevent it from being damaged. The sphere bounced off of that mana and right into my opponent’s chest.

He had a look of utter shock as it slammed into him, staggering back a step at the impact.

Before he’d recovered, I’d fired three more orbs. Taking turns? Please. There were no turns in war.

Of my three newly-fired spheres, only one connected with him. I deflected another two from other opponents in the meantime, sending them as close to my opponent as I could, but failing to get them quite at the right angle.

I saw a projectile headed for Patrick, and it looked like it had slipped past his notice. Spinning on my heels, I fired a blast at the orb... and missed entirely.

My attack did manage to get very near to hitting Roland. On the positive side, Roland was on the opposite team.

On the negative side, he was looking at me now, and he was lookingunamused.

On the considerably more negative side, he was carrying two canes — one in either hand.

I wish I’d thought of that.

The hail of spheres that came my way in the following moments was nothing short of terrifying.

I managed to dodge or deflect six, then seven, and then eight of them before one finally slipped through. It hit me in the shoulder with enough force to send a surge of numbness down my arm. I very nearly dropped my cane.

Fortunately, Roland seemed satisfied by that, turning away from me to continue his onslaught on the next opponent who was unlucky enough to draw his ire.

I ducked, nursing my numb arm, trying to assess my situation.

My direct opponent was gone. I was momentarily confused before I remembered that anyone else could have hit him while I wasn’t looking.

A further assessment told me that nearly half of the field had been eliminated. I felt a little less bad after that, but I still hadn’t made up for hitting that ally of mine. I glanced toward him, considering trying to help him to repay the debt, but he was already out of the ring.

It was hard to tell at a glance, but I was pretty sure our team was losing. Unsurprising, given the juggernauts on the other team. Goddess, even Sera was over there, standing a couple lanes away from Roland.

The lane to my left was empty now. I had room to move if I wanted to, but having Patrick next to me felt like an advantage.

How could I use that?I stepped out of my lane without thinking to dodge an incoming sphere, only afterward realizing that I wasn’t sure if I could step back into my original position without breaking the rules.

Probably?I glanced back at a judge, deflecting an errant projectile that was approaching at the corner of my vision. “Hey, can I walk freely between my old lane and this one now that this guy is out?”

“Yep, sure can.” The judge nodded.

I glanced at Patrick, then back to the judge. “The other guy adjacent to him is gone. Does that mean he can move around, including into my old lane?”

The older student frowned, scratching his chin. “Yeah, sure, I guess he useyour old lane if he wants to.” Good enough for me.

I stepped back into my original lane. “Patrick, we’re doubling up.”

He glanced to the empty lane on his right, and then back to me, his expression still focused. “Got it.”

He stepped into the same lane I was standing in, and we shifted our stances, facing outward at diagonals. We were limiting each other’s mobility, but we had complete coverage for deflecting enemy projectiles this way.

I made use of that almost immediately, deflecting the first projectile that approached us and scoring an unlikely hit on someone on the opposite side.

After that, I saw a couple of people staring at us, but fewer seemed to want to attack.

Good.

My right hand was getting sore from the mana I’d been putting into attacking, and I could tell that the other students were suffering similarly, slowing down their attacks and picking them more tactically. I swapped the cane to my left hand, taking a shot at a lone student on the far left of the opposite line.

It missed, but the student dodged directly into Patrick’s orb, fired only a moment later.

“Nice,” I called.

Another orb flashed into my perception nearby and bounced off the floor right in front of me.

I jumped right over it, growling at someone stealing my earlier trick, and looked at where it had come from.

Sera, obviously. Standing in the same lane as Roland. They had a different formation, though. He had his arms out to the left and right, cane in either hand, while she stood directly in front of him with her cane blocking the center.

She winked at me.

Oh, you want to play?I was so distracted leveling my cane at Sera that I completely missed the orb coming in from my left. It smashed into my side, knocking me into Patrick. We straightened ourselves after a moment, and I noted that Marissa was the one who had launched the shot.

“One more point against Corin,” a judge announced. “Focus,” Patrick reminded me.

I grumbled, falling back into my defensive stance as more blasts flashed around us.

It was less than another minute before we were practically the onlymembers of our team left standing. The other team still had seven people, including Marissa, Sera, and Roland. Patrick and I had two other students with us, but they were far away and looked exhausted.

We needed to even the odds somehow. Even in a defensive position, we were far too vulnerable to concentrated fire.

In retrospect, it was shocking I hadn’t tried this earlier. “The lanes go all the way to the other side.”

I didn’t need to say anything else; Patrick had always been adept at picking up my lines of thought. Far better than my family, at least.

“On three?” Patrick asked. “Resh that, on one. Go.” We bolted.

A few orbs flew lazily through the air past us. I had to deflect one that actually came close to landing, but we crossed the room in a handful of seconds. We switched to back-to-back positions, facing the opposition.

Marissa and two others on my side. Roland, Sera, and two others on his.

Still bad odds, but now every projectile that didn’t hit us had a high chance of passing us and hitting members of their own team.

Our own remaining team members used that window to open fire on the people near Marissa, taking one of them out of the fight. I joined the assault, firing at Marissa’s unguarded side.

Without looking, she punched the orb out of the air, sending it across the arena to fade into nothing.

Okay, new tactic. Never fight her ever.

Patrick staggered into me, apparently having taken a hit. All four opponents on his side were looking at us. They took shots one at a time, conserving their mana while keeping us under pressure.

Sera yawned when I looked at her.

I fired a blast at the floor in front of her, much like she had with me. As she moved to deflect it, I shot another blast at the side of the same sphere, bouncing it right into Roland.

He fell to the side, colliding with Sera. Patrick took the opening to fire at the pair, but one of their teammates managed to fire a blast that knocked his projectile aside.

Teamwork, my greatest asset, my greatest weakness.

I looked at our remaining ally on the other side of the ring. I probably should have invited her to come join us, but she was far enough away that I didn’t know if she’d reach us in time.

As it happened, she only lasted a few more moments where she was. Marissa bounced a pair of orbs off the ceiling, which I hadn’t evenconsidered, and took our last companion completely unware.

Patrick swapped hands, and then unleashed a flurry of quick blasts at our closest opponent, Sera. The torrent of attacks was too fast to effectively deflect, so she and Roland stepped aside — probably without realizing that they had been obscuring the existence of the orbs until it was too late for the people behind them to notice.

One reacted in time, only clipped by a single sphere. The other took hits from four in a row, and I saw his shield visibly crack before a judge reached in and pulled him right out of the ring.

I whistled in appreciation, but Patrick only shook his head. “Think that was probably the last I’ve got in me. Arms feel like they’re on fire.”

I wasn’t in great shape myself, but nowhere near that bad. Then again, I’d been dueling daily since I was old enough to hold a stick. Not many people had that advantage.

I tried to bounce a sphere off the ceiling to hit Marissa, but I missed her entirely. Aiming them was trickier than it seemed.

I did, however, manage to dodge the attack from the student behind her. It missed Patrick and slammed into Sera.

She glowered at her teammate as she stepped out of the ring.

Okay, Sera’s out. That’s just four against two now, we can do this.

“Eyes!” Patrick shoved me, then stumbled. For an instant, I thought he’d made a classic heroic sacrifice, but the orb had missed him as well.

“Sorry!” I spun in time to knock one of Roland’s spheres back at him, but Roland simply batted it back out of the way.

Patrick and I settled back into our defensive, back-to-back stance. “Ideas?” he asked.

If he’s out of mana, and our opponents are pretty close, we could try to run them out. But Marissa’s showing no signs of stopping, and I don’t think we’ve even scratched her.

Our opponents who were furthest away — Marissa on my side, someone I didn’t recognize on Patrick’s — were walking forward in their lanes, toward the middle of the room. That meant they were taking themselves out of the direct lines of fire of their teammates, nullifying one of our few advantages.

It did give me an idea, though.

The student that was on my side could barely hold up his cane. It was charged, but I didn’t expect him to take more than one more shot, if that.

I glanced at Patrick, pointed at the student, and said, “Melee.” We rushed him.

With no students in the lanes between us, we were free to roam... so there was no rule preventing Patrick from using his cane to knock the otherstudent’s weapon out of the way. Nor was there any rule against me point- blank blasting the poor guy with my own.

It only took one shot to take him out of the arena. Patrick took a hit in the back from Roland in the meantime, but he was still standing.

He grinned at me. “Nice. Now what?”

Marissa was maneuvering carefully on my side, her left hand glowing with a visible aura.

On our opposite side, Roland and the other remaining student were standing still, weapons poised and ready.

Charging Marissa would be suicide — Guardians are made for close combat. Rushing Roland would let her shoot at us from behind, and I don’t think we’d close that distance before she could hit us. We could make a fighting retreat to Roland’s side, but as soon as it’s obvious we’re angling for them they’d probably attack...

How can we overwhelm them from here?“Patrick, do you think you’re recovered enough for another shot?” His expression was pained, but he nodded. “I think so. If I have to.” I whispered something in his ear.

He extended his cane toward Marissa and raised his thumb above the rune. If this went badly, Marissa was the least likely opponent to be seriously hurt.

I grabbed onto his cane with my left hand. “Now.” We pushed the rune at the same time.

I felt the mana surging through me and, for the first time, I felt that connection extend all the way through to someone else. Patrick.

We were each giving it enough mana to power the blast individually. I gave it more, pushing my mana through, just like I had with my dueling cane.

I felt the mana that was already charging the cane, grabbed that, and pulled it into rune.

The sphere we produced was tremendous, probably three feet in diameter.

It whirred through the air, directly at Marissa.

Marissa slammed her cane into the incoming orb, but her weapon bounced right off it. The ball impacted with her shield, leaving glowing cracks as it continued to push, until she slammed a fist through the center of the orb and dispersed it into tiny fragments.

“What are you about, Corin?” She lowered her hand, shaking it out a few times, then sent us an outraged glare. “You tryin’ to kill me?”

I winced. Maybe that attack had been overkill. I hadn’t meant to upset her. “Uh. Um... No. Sorry—”

She replied with a pair of blasts: one for Patrick; one for me. Both landedon target.

Lord Teft clapped as we walked out of the ring. “Excellent, excellent. I haven’t seen a show like that in... days, maybe?” He shook his head. “Anyway, good ingenuity there. Roland, twelve points for asking for a second cane and lasting until the end.”

That second cane was a great idea. Wish I’d thought of that.

Teft turned toward another student and continued. “Ten points to Jonathan for lasting to the end as well. Marissa, ten points for you as well, for your overall performance. And Corin...”

Marissa stomped over to Teft. “Yer gonna reward him for whatever that was?”

Teft chuckled. “I said the only weapons you could use were canes. I didn’t say how you had to use them. Overcharging a cane would be illegal in a number of events, true, and it probably should have been a rule here. But it wasn’t. So, five points to Corin for cheating and getting away with it.”

She folded her arms. “And yer not worried ‘bout what would have happened if he broke my shield?”

“In a worst case? You’d be feeling very numb right now. These are practice war canes, Miss Callahan. The spells they emit are safer than normal dueling canes, and even those are barely a threat. If you have concerns about the safety of my class, however, you are always welcome to leave.”

“No,” she replied through clenched teeth. “I’m not leavin’.” She narrowed her eyes. “I’ve somethin’ different in mind.”

***After spending a few minutes nursing my numbed limbs, I left the class.

I hadn’t meant to get on Marissa’s bad side. In fact, she was one of the few students that truly interested me. On my way out, I realized that just apologizing and explaining what I was thinking would probably help, if I had the courage to do it.

So I walked right back to class and did it immediately.

I caught Marissa as she was tossing her cane in the box. “Hey, uh... Marissa.”

She spun, her jaw tightening as she saw me. “What is it, Corin?” I raised my hands defensively. “I came back here to apologize.” She tilted her head to the side. “What? You making a joke?”

I waved my upraised arms back and forth in denial. “Uh, not joking. I’m not good at this, I just wanted to say I’m sorry. I wasn’t trying to cheat back there, or to do something that looked like it might actually hurt you. Honestly, I didn’t know exactly how dangerous it was, so I really shouldn’t have done that even if it did turn out well, but—”

“Stop.” She frowned. “Okay. Yer apologizing. And yer right, that was stupid. But... Well, you’re actually apologizing? That’s... well, it’s new.”

I raised an eyebrow. “New?”

Marissa brushed her hands across her uniform, looking down. “Yer a noble, aren’t ya? You know I’m not, right?”

I nodded. “I mean, I’d guessed that, but I don’t see how it’s a big deal.” “Do you know how frequently nobles apologize for doing somethin’ meanto someone who ain’t one of them?“I, uh, hadn’t really thought about it. But from your reaction, I’m going to gather the answer is ‘not very frequently’?”

She laughed. It was a short laugh, one that rang of bitterness. “Might be understating that a bit.” She looked up at me, letting her eyes meet mine. I didn’t look away. “Why’d ye do it? Why go after me like that?”

I blinked. “It was nothing personal, if that’s what you were thinking. You were clearly too strong defensively for normal attacks to work. The other two were too far away for us to reach.”

Marissa frowned. “But I saw ye looking at me, even before the match started.”

“Sure, I was looking for the toughest opponents, figuring out how to crack your defenses or work around you.”

“Toughest... opponents?”

I tapped my forehead. “See this? I have the great honor and prestige of having one of the worst attunements for dueling. The only chance I have to succeed here is through strategy, at least until I can throw together some items. And a big part of that strategy is learning how to deal with the strongest fighters we have. At the moment, that’s you, Roland, and maybe that Jeremiah guy who only shows up to about a third of our classes.”

She chuckled. “Not sure I agree that he should make the list. Not sure I agree that I should make the list — but, I, uh, guess I’m flattered?”

I nodded. “Anyway, I really am sorry that I offended you, and if there’s something I can do to make up for it, let me know.”

Marissa raised a hand to her mouth, looking stymied. I wasn’t sure why I was affecting her so much. Clearly I had miscalculated somehow, but the response wasn’t entirely bad, at least.

“I, uh, I... I’ll think about it. I think I should go? I should go.” Marissa half-nodded, half-bowed, and then disappeared into the distance.

***When I arrived back at my room, there was a letter waiting for me. It had a runic seal, one designed to break only when touched by the intended recipient. Opening the letter before the seal was deactivated would incineratethe document. The offender’s hands weren’t likely to come out unsinged either.

I hadn’t seen one in years; they were expensive. Now that I was an Enchanter, I’d have to learn how to make them at some point.

I pressed my thumb to the seal. It cracked open, allowing me to pluck the letter from within the envelope.

My Dear Corin,I strongly advise you to stay as far away from Keras Selyrian as possible.

I am aware of your personality, however, and I expect my counsel will go unheeded.

Keras Selyran was last seen heading toward the Edrian border. We believe he has recently emerged from the Serpent Spire. I’m unaware of if he completed his objectives within.

This is a delicate matter, and I will trust that you will be discrete with this information.

If you truly are already involved in this situation, I would like to speak with you as soon as possible. Unfortunately, I have urgent business in Dalenos, and I will not be able to visit you for the next several months. I entreat you to display the utmost caution until we are able to speak directly.

One final time: please be careful. You will be in my thoughts.

-Your MotherMy hand tightened as I finished reading the letter, crumpling the page.

It was, perhaps, my own fault that the first words I’d gotten from my mother in years were chastising me for delving into danger.

A part of me had hoped for more. Something meaningful.

There were so many things I’d wanted to say to my mother over the years.

So many questions I’d wanted to ask.

Why had she left? Was I so inferior to Tristan that it wasn’t worth staying? Now that I knew about Sera’s potential heritage, I wondered if that was a factor. Had Father been sleeping with another woman? Had Tristan’s failurejust been the last in a series of arguments?For years, I’d wanted to know the truth, but it never seemed like the right time to ask.

Perhaps more importantly, I was afraid of what the answer might be. Was it my weakness that had driven my parents apart?I didn’t think I could handle that.

So, I didn’t focus on finding the truth. I told myself I had a betterapproach, one that would reunite my family rather than just giving me potentially painful knowledge.

I had to bring my brother back. He was the only one who could help mend our wounds.

I had some information about Keras to work with now, at least. I destroyed the letter.

If Keras was heading toward the Edrian border, that certainly added to the hypothesis that he was working with Edria somehow. I didn’t have any good means to look into that immediately.

I went to try find Professor Orden, but she wasn’t around. I tried a few more times over the following days, only to find learn from Professor Teft that Orden had gone into the tower.

I’d have to get answers elsewhere for a while. For the moment, I had more pressing matters to attend to. I needed to make sure I was ready for the upcoming test; I would be no help to anyone if I failed out of the academy.

