CHAPTER XIII — LIMINAL PHASE

I was shivering when I woke. “Idiot.”

The voice was harsh, barely familiar. As my vision cleared, I realized it wasn’t one of my companions leaning over me — it was Professor Vellum.

I kept shivering. My limbs were numb, but shot through with vines of agony.

Vellum met my eyes. “Awake now? Good. Get rid of that sword.”

I frowned, still disoriented. The sword? What did that have to do with anything?I was barely cognizant of the white aura stretched across my skin as I reached down, awkwardly fumbled with the hilt of my weapon, and half drew it from the scabbard. Turning over between convulsions, I barely managed to finish drawing it out of the sheath and shoving it to clatter across the stone floor.

Vellum mumbled something I couldn’t quite make out, and then snapped her fingers. I felt an abrupt shock as the white glow faded from my body. The numbness and pain didn’t recede, but I was vaguely aware that the source of the cold that caused them had dissipated.

The teacher turned to someone else. “Warm him.”

I wanted to roll over to see who she was talking to, but I didn’t have the strength. I heard a strong voice speaking an incantation as I slipped back into sleep.

***Corin.

I was in a dense forest, a light rain falling from the darkened sky.

I held a woman in my arms for the last time. She would shed no tears here; she had always been the stronger of us. I ran my fingers through herhair, stained turquoise by the vast power that flowed within her.

“I will be with you soon. I will stop him this time.” I shivered as I spoke. We both knew that I had lied.

She broke free from our embrace, turning her eyes up to meet mine. I’d seen so many things in those eyes... laughter, anger, joy. I had never seen such complete despair.

I couldn’t bear to meet that gaze. I looked away, turning to the young man at my left side. His long hair was drenched, his legendary blade resting unsheathed against his right shoulder. He’d come such a long way from the boy I’d helped to raise. His skill had surpassed my own, though he would never admit it. Perhaps it would be enough.

His gaze was filled with determination. “Take care of the rest of them while I am away,” I implored him.

Vel nodded, turning his head toward my love. “Let’s go, Ria. The others are waiting.”

She gripped my hand, squeezing it tightly for a moment before she followed Vel deeper into the copse of trees that lay ahead.

Good. I had worried she would refuse to leave me behind.

I turned and faced the entrance to the glade. I did not have to wait long before he appeared.

He was unarmored. He’d long ago reached the point where no hide or metal could match the toughness of his skin, and eschewing the ceremonial suit he wore on most occasions meant that he wanted every advantage he could employ.

His eyes glimmered gold in the forest’s low light.

I shivered again as I saw the weapon sheathed at his side. The hilt resembled the base of a tree, a bright green gem clutched between its roots. As he drew the weapon, I observed the runes on the surface of the black metal blade. One rune for every life he had taken with it, whether they were man or god.

There were countless thousands of runes on the surface of that blade.

I set my hand on my own saber, drawing the familiar weapon and raising it in salute. I felt the familiar aura of frost stretch across my skin, hardening into armor. It was almost unbreakable.

My opponent raised his own weapon to mirror my salute. “I have long anticipated this meeting.”

My grip tightened on the hilt of my weapon, my heart hammering in my chest. “So have I.” My voice was as harsh as gravel from many years of shouting battlefield commands. I was an old man, but far younger than my rival in spite of appearances. His kind would never feel the weight ofmortality on their bones. “Then let us begin.”

My rival flashed forward in a blur, his blade forward in a deadly thrust.

The world froze around me, raindrops pausing in their fall.

Corin, open your eyes.

I drifted backward, my perspective shifting as I saw the scene from above. I was no longer the old swordsman, simply a distant viewer from the skies above.

I saw other figures below, the woman he loved among them, traversing the forest with haste. They headed toward a distant, shining light, something vast. Something beyond my ability to perceive, contained within the form of a many-faceted gem.

Awaken.

The world around shivered and shattered, leaving only darkness.

***“Corin, wake up!”

I felt someone squeeze my hand. I shivered, drawing in a sharp breath, and my eyes fluttered open.

My vision cleared. My next breath was relief. It was Sera that was holding my hand.

I was in my own bed. I had no recollection of how I’d gotten there. “Mmf,” was all I managed to say. Sera was sitting in a chair beside me. She had deep bags under her eyes, like she hadn’t slept in days. It was oddly dark in the room.

“You were having some kind of nightmare.” She lifted something off my forehead, a wet towel, I realized belatedly. She replaced it with a new one.

The details of the dream were already fading. “Not a nightmare,” I murmured. “Not exactly.”

I wasn’t exactly sure what it was, but I was fairly confident it wasn’t a standard dream. I’d had plenty of adventure dreams before, but the voice that I’d heard... I recognized it. I’d only heard it once before.

It was the same voice that had spoken to me when I’d gained my attunement.

Certainly, the mind was capable of fabricating such things... but I didn’t think so. The details of the encounter were lost to me in my waking state, but it didn’t feel like the product of my ailing mind, nor even some sort of prophetic vision.

It felt like a memory. But a memory of who?Selys, the goddess of the towers?A possibility, but I didn’t think so. Initially, at least, the vision seemed to come from the perspective of that old swordsman. I didn’t recognize him. A previous wielder of the sword, perhaps?Lars had said that the sword, Selys-Lyann, was cursed. I’d assumed he’d been spinning a tale to make a sale, but what if there had been some truth to it?I shivered, and not because of the cold.

My eyes scanned the room. “Where’s the sword I was wearing?”

Sera frowned. “That’s the first thing you’re going to ask? Seriously?” She retracted her hand from mine to cross her arms. “It’s under your bed. Professor Vellum left strict instructions not to let you use it. You need to talk to her once you’re recovered.”

Sitting up took significant effort. My back felt like someone had stuck a basket of needles in it.

Sera ruined my accomplishment immediately by pushing me back down with a firm hand. “Stay. You’re not going anywhere for a while.”

From the pain that was building in my temples, I knew she was right. I lifted a hand to rub my forehead. “What happened?”

“A better question.” Normally, she’d be smirking with a line like that, but not the slightest hint of mirth traced across her lips. “You almost died.”

I blinked. I almost died?That took a few moments to process. “How? Wasn’t that just a simulation?”

She wrinkled her nose. “Yeah, and you still somehow managed to almost kill yourself. How typical.”

When I didn’t reply for a moment, she elaborated with an exasperated wave of her hand. “You somehow managed to wreath yourself in ice that spread on its own. Then you lost consciousness. You were lucky the tests are closely watched. They pulled you out almost immediately. Thing is, the ice started spreading again as soon as they melted it off you. Vellum apparently woke you up long enough to get you to toss the sword aside, which stopped the effect from propagating further.”

Oh, is that what that was? “Uh, oops?”

She raised her arm. I flinched back, but the blow I’d expected never came. Instead, she slipped her arm under me and gave me a crushing hug,burying her head in my chest. “Never do that again.”

I felt my hands quiver at the unexpected contact. I... wasn’t used to being touched in a way that didn’t involve violence, at least not in the last fewyears.

It helped that it was Sera. I pictured when we’d held hands as children. It had been perfectly normal, even comforting, when we were little. I hadn’t associated touching with pain back then.

I took a deep breath and, slowly, returned the hug. “I’m sorry that I worried you.”

I was surprised to find that I actually meant it.

After three years away from everyone, I’d almost forgotten what it was like to have friends.

I pulled her closer, feeling her tense, then relax at the gesture. “I’m okay,” I said.

That part, unfortunately, was a lie.

***The next morning, I woke to find Sera sleeping in the chair next to my bed. I wasn’t sure what to make of that.

I’d been raised to expect Sera to be my retainer. Looking after me while I slept, to make sure I didn’t somehow manage to get myself killed? Classic retainer business.

Now that she was presumably the family heir?Honestly, she’d have been better off if I had died. Less competition that way.

I wouldn’t have expected her to think in those terms, of course. As practical as Sera could be, I never expected her to make a utility calculation about the value of my life.

Was she actually thinking of me like a sibling now? I didn’t know what to make of that.

I missed Tristan. I missed him desperately, and I was still firm in my resolve that I’d find a way to get him back.

And when he was back, we’d rebuild our family. He’d always been the unifying one, the one who was effortlessly charming and limitlessly talented. Mother and Father had been so proud of him.

But as much as I loved my brother, he’d never been the gentle sort. He wouldn’t have been watching over me here. He’d have assumed that coddling me would have just encouraged future weakness.

That was my father’s philosophy, and we’d both been trained to believe it completely. I didn’t start to have my doubts until after Tristan was gone.

I was grateful that Sera had never been raised with those values.

Her eyes flickered open as I sat up, awkwardly dislodging my covers. I was feeling vastly better, but Sera looked wretched. I doubted she’d gotten much sleep.

“Hmm?” She mumbled. “What time is it?”

I shrugged at her. “Don’t know. It’s Wyddsay, though, unless I slept through more than one day.”

“You didn’t.”

“Then you can sleep in. No classes to worry about.”

She nodded blearily, and I pulled back the bed’s covers and pointed a hand. “In.”

Sera grumbled as she shifted from chair to bed, and I helped pull off her boots. I wasn’t going to let those filthy things into my sheets; I had standards. Next, I eased her into the covers. She mumbled something I couldn’t hear, and then turned away. I saw the slightest crack of a smile on her face as she began to drift off. She was fast asleep in moments.

***Professor Vellum wasn’t quite as friendly with her morning greeting. From her grimace when I walked into the office, I knew I was in for a lecture.

“Ah, it’s the prodigy of idiots.”

I barely resisted the urge to roll my eyes. “And a good morning to you too, professor. As always, your kind words bring warmth to my frigid heart.”

She folded her arms. “Don’t you snark at me, boy. There’s only one seat for snark in this office, and I’ve had it claimed for quite some time.”

“I suppose a duel of wits for the chair is out of the question.”

Vellum chortled. “Please, child. Have you ever heard the phrase ‘death of a thousand cuts’? That’s what the last fool who challenged me got, though the truth was that he could only comprehend one jab in those thousand. You wouldn’t last a round.”

“Don’t attribute to inability what more rightfully would be called disinterest. When the time comes for our contest, I won’t need a thousand strikes to match your own. A single one will suffice.”

She laughed in earnest this time. “A bold claim.” She waved a hand as though she were clearing smoke and grew serious once more. “Though not amusing enough to make up for your little stunt in the test. Now, sit your too- clever rear. We have actual business to discuss.”

Aww, but that was just getting entertaining.

I lifted some books off one of the chairs across the desk from Vellum’s, set them on the floor, and then took a seat. Belatedly, I noticed the top book’s title, Runes of Frost. Interesting.

“So, nearly killed myself, I hear?”

Vellum took her own seat. “I understand that your nonchalance is a way of deflecting from real concern, but I need you to take this seriously. Yes, you very nearly killed yourself. That is not a matter for jest.”

A corner of my mouth turned downward, but I nodded. “I understand,” I told her.

“I don’t think you do, or you wouldn’t have done it.” She was matter-of- fact, neither teasing or scolding in her tone. “Set the sword on the table, and draw it out enough to expose the runes.”

I followed her instructions. It was only at that point that I realized that the feather I’d attached to the handle, the one meant to block the sword’s supposed curse... was gone. My lips tightened as I considered possibilities for how that could have happened.

She raised a finger, pointing at the four runes. “How many of these runes do you understand?”

I glanced it over, thinking about my research, and pointed to one of them. “This is some sort of advanced variation on an ice rune. The others... I’m less sure about.”

“And you still felt it was wise to bring this weapon into a simulation.” I shrugged. “I didn’t have any evidence to indicate it was dangerous.”

“You didn’t have any evidence.” She raised her hands to shield her eyes. “I will not demean your intelligence again, but you must consider this seriously. You did not have any evidence it was dangerous because you did not understand the weapon at all.”

That felt a little unfair, but she did have a point. “I’ve practiced with it, both alone and with Teft in dueling class. Also, I heard a bit about it from a former climber, and took some precautions.”

“Oh? And what sort of precautions did you take?”

“I bought a gryphon feather to counter the curse on it?” I rubbed the back of my head sheepishly.

Vellum leaned across the table, glaring. “You mean to tell me that you brought a weapon that you believed to be cursed into a test?”

I winced. “I thought the feather was sufficient to handle it?”

Heh. Handle it. Unintentional puns are the best. I didn’t laugh, though.

Her glare was a little too intense for that.

“You... didn’t happen to find my feather, did you?” I asked hesitantly.

“Oh yes, I found the remains of a feather,” she said, her voice pleasant. Had her eye twitched? “Frozen and blackened. It crumbled to dust when your friend attempted to pick it up.”

Well. That was more than a little foreboding. “Okay, I admit I may have miscalculated.”

“You were unwise. But, in fairness, so was I.” Vellum sat back in her chair. “I saw the sword on your hip when you first visited, and I failed to recognize it. That oversight was as great as your own, and for that, Iapologize.”

I wasn’t sure what to say to that. “I... accept your apology?”

She nodded amiably. “Good, good. Now, you’ll also accept some rules.” There was steel in that final sentence.

Oh, that sounds bad.

She raised a finger. “One. You will not bring that weapon into any further simulations.”

It was a brutal restriction — the sword was one of my key assets — but it made sense.

She waited for my nod before she lifted a second finger. “Two. You will not train with the sword without my direct supervision. We will schedule lessons for you to learn how to wield it properly.”

That was going to slow me down considerably, but I still nodded again.

Third finger. “Three. You will read this book on empathic weapons.” She slid a book across the desk. “I expect you to study it closely if you expect to use the weapon during your visit to the tower later this year.”

I blinked. “Empathic weapons?”

Vellum nodded, pointing at the fourth rune. “This is a spirit rune. It is among the rarest enchantments to find on an object, and among the most dangerous. When you wished to shield yourself from fire, the sword responded. It continued to attempt to shield you even after you lost consciousness. This rune is why.”

I blinked. “You’re saying the sword is intelligent?”

“Perhaps intelligent is too strong a word. Without a detailed study, I cannot say if the sword is self-aware. It does, however, have a spirit bound to it, and that spirit is bound to act according to your will. This gives the weapon tremendous potential power... but if misused, it could easily be fatal to you or your allies.”

I remembered a flash of the dream, the swordsman holding this same blade. Was the spirit tied to the sword his own? Perhaps that explained the dream. I could have been seeing one of the weapon’s memories.

I hadn’t seen how that memory had ended yet, but I was pretty sure I knew where it had been going.

“Okay. I understand your restrictions and accept them.” I pointed at the exposed surface. “Can you explain the other two runes?”

Vellum looked where I had indicated. “One of them is an extremely advanced rune for interfacing between sword and wielder. The fourth rune,” her brows knit together, “I confess I don’t recognize. A rare event, I assure you.”

Interesting. “Do you think it poses an additional threat?”

“Everything we do not understand is a potential threat, Corin. It is, however, also a potential advantage. I will write the rune down and search the archives in my own free time. My curiosity would permit no less.”

I saw the gesture for what it was. “Thank you, Professor.”

“Now that you’ve been thoroughly chastised, I suspect you owe your friends a visit. They were quite concerned.”

Friends?Oh, she meant my team members. I hadn’t really processed most of them as friends yet, other than Patrick. I still wasn’t sure I could call Marissa a friend; I barely knew her. Jin was closer, but he was more of a business associate. Probably.

“I’ll do that, but another question first.”

She waved for me to continue, a weary look on her face. “And what other nonsense did you have in mind?”

“Without the sword, I’ll be at a significant disadvantage in future tests. You mentioned you’d teach me ‘real enchanting’. I’d like to get started on that as soon as possible, so I can build some sort of replacement. And, once I’ve talked to the others, I’d like to start building equipment for them as well.”

“I understand that you’ve already made a number of objects of dubious value for one of them.”

“Those were commissions at his request,” I replied. “But, having seen how challenging this test was, I’d like to make some other items on my own initiative to help everyone succeed. There are a couple of problems, however.”

“Problems?”

“First is my lack of knowledge, which I hope you’ll help me address.

Second is a lack of funds.”

“Ah, yes. Money. The perpetually shrinking resource of any intrepid Enchanter. I can’t help you. Even if I was to take you on formally as my apprentice, our school has tight restrictions on the resources a professor is allowed to give a current student. The rules are designed for students who want more resources to push themselves into Phoenix Hall. If we could give away funds however we wanted, it would diminish the incentive for students to work toward better grades.”

I didn’t entirely agree with that. There would always be good students that didn’t have the ability or interest to secure a mentor, and they’d benefit from getting into Phoenix Hall. Still, I could understand the intent. It was possible I needed to take working toward Phoenix Hall a bit more seriously.

“I could still use advice on how to make money without losing the limitedtime that I have to study,” I pushed. I’d thought about apprenticing to that automobile salesman, but I knew that would take more hours than I was willing to sacrifice.

“Have you considered selling enchanted items? Finished products can often sell for considerably more than the material costs.”

I nodded. “It’s occurred to me, but I’m not sure how I could compete with factories that mass produce the most useful enchanted goods. I mean, maybe I could make something more obscure that a climber might find useful, but then I’d have to spend time finding someone who wanted to buy a niche item.”

“Let me test something.” She placed her left hand over her gloved right and stepped over to my side of the table. She pressed two gloved fingers against my forehead. “Your mental mana here is abysmal. Have you even been practicing?”

I withered away from her touch. “Um, I sort of don’t like to use my mental mana?”

She shot me a look of disbelief. “Whyever not?”

“I, uh, really don’t like the idea of losing my mental acuity. Or, you know, killing myself by accident.” My shoulders rose defensively.

“Like you did with your sword, you mean?”

“Okay, okay.” My hands went up in surrender. “I accept that I made a mistake with the sword. But,” I added, “that doesn’t mean that showing caution about something else is a bad idea.”

She snorted. “Have you been using your attunement?” “A little bit, here and there.”

Her fingers jabbed my forehead again. “And what mana, exactly, do you think you’re using for that?”

I didn’t have a good response to that. The answer was obvious. “I didn’t think...”

She didn’t wait for me to finish. “And have you been killing yourself when you use the attunement? Or losing a significant degree of mental acuity?”

“In fairness, I’m not sure I’d be able to tell if I was losing my ability to think clearly.”

“You would.” Her tone brooked no argument. “Your headaches will reach a crippling intensity long before you lose any significant mental acuity. If you’re impairing your ability to think, you’ll know, and you can stop. It is imperative that you practice using your mental mana, and not just through using your attunement. It is the only reliable way to advance your attunement to a greater stage. And if you truly wish to make useful items for your friends, or to make a profit, you need to be able to reach at least a Carnelian-level inthat attunement.”

“I... understand.” I sucked a breath in through my teeth. “But I still don’t know if I’m going to be able to make myself do it.”

“Keep your attunement for at least a few hours each day, then. See how it feels. It’s not as effective for building your mana as larger expenditures would be, but it’s mild exercise, and you’ll begin to feel the side effects gradually. And for you, any progress would be better than none.”

I felt myself nodding slowly at her rebuke. “I’ll try. But you mentioned that the gauntlet I made was already Carnelian-level... doesn’t that mean that I can make Carnelian-level enchantments as it is?”

“Not all Carnelian enchantments have equal complexity. The difference between an E-ranked Carnelian Mage and an A-ranked Carnelian Mage is about a three times difference in power. I would rate your enchantment at the bottom of the Carnelian scale, and it took you considerable effort — and a major mishap — to complete it.” She paused, looking thoughtful.

“I will find some practical enchantments that you can use to practice your Mind Magic, and then sell at a profit. I will sell them for you, putting my own integrity at risk, for a portion of the item’s cost. Once you are close to Carnelian-ranked yourself, I will teach you a broader variety of things to build.”

I nodded. “I suppose that’s the best I could ask for. Thank you, Professor.” She rubbed at her temples, walking back to slump in her seat. “Get that sword out of my sight, Corin. I will expect to see you here again next Wyddsday and each subsequent Wyddsday at ten o’clock. Until further notice,weekends will exist only in your fondest memories.”

They say the mark of a true swordsman is a cut so swift you never feel the wound until you begin to fall.

No weekends? The professor taking an undisclosed portion of the profits on items she taught me to make?It was only after exiting Professor Vellum’s office that I realized how thoroughly I’d been outplayed.

***I headed to the dining hall next. I desperately needed food; the test had taken a lot out of me. I planned to bring something back to my room for Sera as a token of gratitude, but I found her already there, seated with most of my team.

Only Jin was missing, presumably off doing mysterious Jin things.

“Hey!” Patrick practically bolted out of his seat when he saw me. “You’re okay!”

I nodded. “Yeah, let me grab some food and I’ll join you.”

I picked out more than I’d probably end up eating, then sat down across from Sera. She looked a bit better now. Presumably, she’d managed to get a couple more hours of sleep after I left.

Patrick prodded my arm. “Are you feeling up to moving around?Shouldn’t you still be in bed?”

I smiled at his concern. “I’m fine, really. I think I just needed to sleep it off. Vellum’s lecture hurt more than the ice, believe me.” I shook my head at the memory, wincing.

“Ooh, I’ll bet.” He popped a carrot into his mouth, munching loudly.

I glimpsed across the table toward Marissa. She was looking down at her food very deliberately. It seemed she wasn’t comfortable being friendly with us yet. That was fine. We’d get there.

I turned to Sera. “How’d your team do?”

She made a hushing gesture with a finger. “Can’t talk about it here. Oh, you were out when they mentioned all that. No talking about the test in mixed company. You can talk to the team, but that’s it. No one else. Not even teachers.”

“Seriously? That’s absurd.” I made a face.

“They’re going to ask us if we told anyone outside the team about the test when we go to the next one, and again after that periodically. Under truth spells, of course. Anyone fails? Out of the school.” She waggled her fingers.

“Seems a little extreme,” I said, blinking.

“It works, I suppose.” She shrugged one shoulder with disinterest. I nodded. “Let’s finish this food up and go talk elsewhere, then?” Sera nodded. “Sounds like a good plan.”

***Cramming four people into my tiny dorm room was, however, less of a good plan.

Sera and I ended up sitting on the bed. Marissa got the chair. Patrick lounged comfortably against a wall.

Jin still wasn’t with us, but knowing him, I’d be shocked if he didn’t have some kind of way of listening in on things in my room.

That thought was simultaneously comforting and terrifying. “Okay,” I turned to Sera. “Let’s talk.”

She nudged me. “How’d your team do?”

I folded my arms. “I’m pretty sure my team ‘died’.”

Sera snickered. “Seems like that’s the idea,” she told me. “You’re just supposed to get as far as you can. We lasted longer than you did, but not by much. We’ve got another group test in ten weeks, and I suspect it’ll be the same test to see if we’ve improved.”

That made sense. There was way too much going on in those rooms to get them right on a first try. I still had no idea what the deal with the box in the first room was, and that rotating statue...

I grimaced as I remembered it turning toward me.

Yeah, that one was definitely designed to beat us on the first try. The pulses of the fire were made to show us a pattern, and then they broke the pattern deliberately.

“Any idea how we scored?”

“The team shares a score. We got a sixty three. Average was fifty, highest was eighty seven.” She sounded satisfied. “Not bad for our first team activity.”

I scratched my chin absently as I absorbed that. “What’s the cutoff for failing out?” I wondered.

“It was thirty for this test. And it sounds like about ten percent of the teams fell below that. The passing threshold for the next test is seventy five.”

I blew out a slow breath. If I failed and got expelled, I could be stuck with going straight into military service. Then I’d have to wait several years before I could take another shot at the tower.

That was unacceptable. “Seventy-five seems like a pretty high bar just to pass.”

Sera shrugged. “Yeah, but it makes sense if you think about it. These tests are designed to see if we’re ready for going in a Climber’s Gate. That’s much more dangerous than our Judgments were. If we can’t pass a simple test like this, we’re not ready. Honestly, I think there should be mandatory tests like this before anyone is allowed to take their Judgement.”

I strongly agreed with her on that point. I also thought we did better with this group than I would have with any other team members, so I was pleased by how far we’d made it.

We’d just have to prepare better for the next one to make sure we passed. “Okay,” I said, “good. If you think we’re going to go back in the samerooms, we should probably go over the specifics of our rooms. Anyone got paper?”

The only blank paper I had on hand was a magic talking book, and I wasn’t exactly thrilled at the idea of using that for discussing a test. Fortunately, Patrick had some paper in his backpack.

“Let’s draw out what we found in each of the rooms.” No one disagreed with me.

We spent the next few minutes drawing our maps, then I explained what we’d encountered in the two we’d seen. Some of it was new to Patrick, since I’d been the only one who’d made it into that flame statue room. Patrick filledin things that I didn’t know in exchange.

“Jin used some kind of identification magic on the box,” he told us. “All he got out of it is that the box is keyed to open when the right item is pressed on a certain spot. There’s definitely something inside it, too.”

“There was a key in our room we didn’t find any use for,” Sera explained. “It’s possible we’re supposed to switch members across rooms to get it to your room. There were some places on our side we didn’t get to, though.”

“You said you got further than we did — what was your side like?” I shifted to get a look at their maps.

Sera pointed to a circle in the center of her room map. “We started out on this little platform surrounded by water. There were these pillars that came up from the water that we had to jump to, but there was a serpent in the water.”

She pointed to some smaller circles. “There were a few platform paths. We started with the one that led to the left door, got about halfway before the serpent tried to chew on us. Then Marissa hit it with her explodey punch.”

Marissa scratched the back of her head, reddening a bit. “Uh, it’s actually called Star Descends from Sky, Miss—”

Sera waved a hand dismissively. “Right, right. So, she exploded the serpent, which made things a lot easier. Got to the door, but it was locked. Spent a while hopping between platforms. One of ‘em was empty, one led to seemingly nothing, but a couple led to switches. We hit those and a key showed up on the empty platform.”

Marissa looked like she wanted to say something, so I nudged Sera to stop talking. Sera flicked me with a finger, but she apparently got the message.

Given a window of silence, Marissa chimed in. “There were things under the water, too. I saw a grate, and another serpent — a bigger one.”

“Probably just to eat us if we fell in the water.” Sera twitched her nose. “I guess the grate could be a thing, but we found the key to the door.”

I thought back to my own misadventures going through a grate in the floor of a tower room. It was a real possibility that thing represented a second exit. “Did you try going down there?”

“Of course not.” Sara sounded irritated. “At a minimum, we needed to check the obvious door first, and we did. The key from the platform opened it.”

I scratched my chin. “What about the platform that seemed to gonowhere?”

“Seemed like a false path,” she said with a shrug.

“Might have been an invisible platform at the end,” I suggested. Sera frowned. “Neither of us had any way of seeing invisible stuff.”

“That’s what swapping team members is for. Jin or I could have handledit.”

“Maybe,” her words were clipped, “but we were doing fine on our own.” “Not trying to knock you down here, Sera. You did better than we did, andthat’s great. But we should be scouring every inch of these rooms. That’s going to take teamwork.”

Sera took a deep breath. “All right,” she said, rubbing the bridge of her nose. She took another breath and rotated her shoulders, loosening her posture. “You’re right. I suppose we could have used some magic eyes. If we get stuck in the same room next time, I’ll swap Jin in to take a quick look.”

I nodded. “Assuming we use the same teams next time.”

Patrick gave me a dejected look. “You think we should change them?”

I held up a placating hand. “Maybe, maybe not. If we think we’re going to be in the same rooms, it might be advantageous to switch things up and get new skills in each of them. Or maybe I’m overanalyzing things and we should just do the same stuff faster next time.”

“Faster?” Sera looked thrown at the shift.

“Toward the end of my test, I started hearing a bell ringing in the distance. It was going faster and faster. I’m pretty sure I was running out of time; that’s part of why I rushed my second room.”

“Never heard anything like that on our side. Did you, Mara?” Sera looked at Marissa, who shook her head in response.

From the context, I picked up that ‘Mara’ was a nickname for Marissa I hadn’t heard. I liked it.

Sera expression grew contemplative. “Maybe specific things give us time extensions, or take time away.”

That made sense.

“All right. What was in your second room?” I asked.

Sera grinned, which I supposed was an improvement from her poor mood earlier. “The dragon.” Or perhaps it wasn’t.

I pursed my lips and glared at her. “A dragon.” My tone was dry. It seemed she was done being serious with the conversation.

“Yup,” she said, amusement in her voice. “Big ‘ol dragon, sleeping on a pile of treasure. Right out of a story book.”

“Dragons aren’t real.”

“Right,” she agreed cheerfully. “But they can put whatever they want in a test.”

I rolled my eyes. “I figured they’d want to make this as much like a real tower climb as possible.”

“Eh, we’re hearing new stories coming out of the towers every year,” she countered dismissively. “They change. Maybe eventually there will be adragon in one of them.”

“Okay,” I sighed. “So? What’d you do?”

“Well, after we were done staring...” She paused when Marissa coughed and sent her a wink. “We snuck over, quiet as we could, and gawked at the treasure. Tons of magic-looking items in the pile. When we got near the top, we could see a door on the other side. Buuut,” she threw out her arms in exaggerated despair, eyes turned to the ceiling, “it was locked, of course. We tried to play it smart. Looked through the pile until we found a key.” She pointed to a point on the map on the map. “It was on the far right side, underneath a helmet.”

I took note of where she indicated. It sounded like the kind of test where any kind of greed would wake the dragon early.

“The dragon woke right up when I touched the key. Roared like thunder having a bad day. By that point, we were running for the door.”

I leaned in, hooked despite myself. “And then?”

“Thing takes a deep breath, breathing fire all over us.” Sera jerked a thumb at Marissa. “Mara steps in front of me, waving her hands in this circly thing, pushing the fire back like a fan. We still get a little scorched, but the sigils absorb it. I make it to the door and try the key — it doesn’t work.”

Oh, those bastards.

Sera continued, “The dragon flaps upward, flying over the pile, and lunges straight at us. Mara jumps at it, hitting it with her explodey punch, right in the jaw.”

Marissa winced at another use of “explodey punch” to describe her technique, but didn’t say anything.

“There’s a flash as the punch ignites the air, but the dragon is unfazed. Doesn’t even slow down. Snaps its jaws right around Mara’s chest.” Sera put the back of her hand against her forehead. “I screamed in vengeful woe for my fallen comrade, summoning a storm of ice to tear into the dragon’s scales. It screamed into the air, injured,” she ignored Marissa’s mortified mutterings in the background and lifted her chin, “and breathed another blast of flame toward me. I raised an ice wall, but the dragon’s flame was too intense, and I didn’t have Mara to protect me.”

Marissa was flame-red. She had one hand up to cover her eyes.

Sera dropped the dramatic pose. “The next thing I knew, I was waking up outside the test room.”

I considered the story. “Probably did better than I would have,” I concluded.

Sera shook her head. “Actually, I’ve been thinking about that. Your sword might be the key to that fight. The dragon was definitely weaker against ice.”

I looked down, dejected. “Doesn’t matter. I’m not allowed to take it into tests anymore.”

“Oh.” Sera was silent for a moment, then put her hand on top of mine. “Well, it doesn’t matter. We’ll find another way to handle it.”

“Yeah.” I thought for a moment. “Seems like we both lost to fire, actually.

And ice was useful on both sides for this test.”

“True. You thinking we should learn more ice spells before the next test?”

I nodded. “Yeah, that’d be good for you and Patrick. I can’t cast ice. Not sure about Marissa.” I sent the Guardian a questioning look.

“No’ at my level,” Marissa denied. “I’ve ‘eard some Masters can, but I’m a long way off from that.”

That was interesting. I hadn’t heard of higher levels of attunements giving access to more types of mana. I’d have to research that more later.

I really needed to do more research on higher levels of attunements in general, especially after that conversation with Vellum. If being a Carnelian Mage was going to be necessary for manufacturing anything useful, I needed to make that a high priority goal.

Patrick pointed at my glove. “Couldn’t you make an ice gauntlet or something?”

I chewed my bottom lip, considering. “I’d need help from you or Sera, but yeah, it’s possible. Not sure if the gauntlet is the best option. We seem to need defense more than offense.”

“Could you make us shield sigils that use ice magic?” Sera asked. “Maybe. Not sure how exactly that’d work. I think I’d have to find a runethat detects fire mana or just generally intensive heat to turn the shield on, then trigger an ice barrier. The problem is that ice is harmful to us; that’s how I nearly killed myself.”

I took a moment to think about it. “If I could make the ice barrier show up outside of our normal shield as a first line of defense, theoretically our normal shields should protect us against the cold...but I’m not sure the shield sigil would even activate. Maybe I could link them so that the normal shield always activates when the ice one does...”

“Could you make the ice shield a second function of the same item, like how your gauntlet can do two things?” Sera offered.

“That’s not a bad idea, but I’m not sure our normal sigils have the mana capacity to handle a second function. I might have to make new ones from scratch, probably out of a higher capacity material... but that’s not a bad idea. I could make the normal shields stronger, too, that way. It’s just expensive.” I nodded anyway. “I’ll look into it.”

“I can’t learn ice spells,” Patrick mused, “but if it’s a flying monster,maybe I could learn some air magic.” He turned to Sera. “Any chance you could teach me that ice storm thing? I mean, I couldn’t cast the spell itself, but if it’s half air and half ice, I could probably learn the air part. Maybe I could make a lightning storm by modifying it or something.”

She shook her head. “I can try to teach it to you, but I don’t know if you could learn it. I’m directly invoking one of the creatures I have a pact with; it’s not the same kind of spell that Elementalists use.”

“Oh. Shame.” Patrick frowned, and then shook it off. “I’m sure I can find something.”

Sera tilted her head to the side. “We could still try it... Let’s talk about it later. Besides that, I thought you were training with Meltlake? Wouldn’t she be able to teach you better air spells?”

That was news to me. Sera seemed to be keeping better track of Patrick than I was. Not surprising, really... I was pretty bad at keeping up with what my friends were doing. I’d need to improve on that.

“Uh, she’s training me,” Patrick confirmed, “but Meltlake doesn’t really teach air spells.” He looked sheepish. “Or lightning spells. You know how a lot of people don’t live up to their name? Yeah,” his voice cracked as he drew out the word, “she’s not one of those people. On the plus side, I know lots of ways to light things on fire.”

That got some snickers from the group, but it also got me curious. “Has she given you any hints on how she does the big stuff? Like, you know, whole lakes?”

He shook his head. “She’s been pretty tight lipped on that. I’ve heard some rumors from the other students, though.”

“What sorts of rumors?” I asked.

“Well, the most popular one is that she’s ascended.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. “Seriously? I know Meltlake is impressive, she’s probably one of the most powerful people here, but... Are Ascended Attunements even real?”

He shrugged. “Some people say that a parent or a friend saw her duel, and that her hand was glowing gold when she cast that spell. I know, I know, that could be anything, but the whole ‘Ascended Attunements glow gold’ thing is a popular story.”

It wasn’t impossible; there were numerous witnesses to her duel and they agreed her power was on an unbelievable scale. Still, just being an Emerald Elementalist might have been sufficient to do what she had. There were, supposedly, only a dozen or so Emeralds in the world. Their capabilities weren’t broadly known.

I decided to move on. “Okay, anyone else have suggestions for nexttime?”

Marissa looked nervous, so I turned to her. “Marissa, what’s on your mind?”

She startled, glancing from side to side. “Well, I don’t mean t’be rude, but... M’lady Sera, you’re a Summoner, yes?”

We all knew the answer, but Sera nodded. “Sure?” she replied.

“Well, I don’t know much about yer attunement, so I don’t aim ta presume. But I didn’t see you actually... summon any monsters?”

Sera shrank. “I, uh, can’t actually do that just yet. I’ve only made one pact, and I don’t have enough mana to summon it. Not even a fragment.”

That made sense, but it made me suspicious. What kind of thing did she make that pact with? The ice theme was obvious. I’d initially assumed she’d found some sort of low-level ice elemental. Could she have found a strong one? Maybe I wasn’t the only one who had an atypical tower adventure.

“Oh, forgive me, I didn’t mean—”

Sera waved her apology away. “No problem, Mara. It was a fair question. I’ll practice. I doubt I’ll manage a summoning in ten weeks, but maybe by the last test.”

In spite of brushing the comment off, I could tell Sera looked pretty bothered by her admission. I leaned into her. “Don’t stress about it. At least you have an attunement that works in combat. And that ice storm spell is the strongest thing we have.”

She nodded without answering.

I looked back at the others. “Okay. Anything else? Actually, maybe you can all give me a wish list with the types of magical items you’d be interested in? I can’t promise anything soon; I’m pretty much out of money. But maybe I can scrape some things together over time. I’d like to get each of us at least one new item before we hit the real tower.”

Patrick and Marissa looked introspective. Sera, on the other hand, folded her arms and narrowed her eyes at me.

“You already owe me a gauntlet,” she reminded me.

“Oh. Right.” I grabbed one of the papers we’d used and wrote that down on the blank side. “Do you want it to be any different from mine?”

She considered. “You can make them use any type of mana, right?” “As long as someone else can provide the mana to power it, sure.”

She glanced at Patrick. “Right now, I’m limited to only throwing ice. That makes me a lot less versatile than Patrick. But if Patrick is willing to help charge a gauntlet for me...”

I nodded at her logic. “You could be throwing fire or lightning, even though your bound monster only gives you ice. Yeah, that makes sense. We’dneed it to recharge itself, though, since you wouldn’t be able to power it with your own mana.”

She nodded. “You willing to help us with this, Patrick?”

He blinked. “Uh, yeah, of course, Sera. Whatever you need.”

I looked at him quizzically. He didn’t usually sound that nervous.

“Okay, great,” I said, dismissing it. “That can go on my list... after the ice shields.”

Sera shot me a withering glance, but I put my hands up in a warding gesture. “The gauntlet is a good idea, but it’s not practical for the immediate future. We need the ice shields more for the next test or two.”

“Assuming the dragon and statues are the biggest problems we run into, yeah,” she retorted. “But what if there’s an ice elemental further in?”

“We need to survive the dragon first,” I pointed out. “I don’t think we’re equipped to do that yet, unless we can figure out a way to bypass it entirely. If ice shields are too specialized, maybe I’ll just make us higher capacity shield sigils. And we can ask Jin if he thinks he can handle the dragon through invisibility or something. But since we don’t even know how to unlock your door, I don’t know how far speculating will get us.”

“Fine, fine.” She sighed. “But I get the first improved shield thing.”

I rolled my eyes. “Okay.” Turning to Marissa, I asked, “You need anything?”

She blinked, pointing a questioning finger at herself. “Me?”

“Yeah, Marissa. You’re a part of this team. It sounds like you did great in there, but I’d still like to know if you’d benefit from anything else.”

She blushed openly at the compliment. “I, erm, s’pose I could use somethin’ that makes me hit harder? If that wouldn’t be too much trouble for you, m’lord Corin.”

“Sure. I seem to be making gauntlets into a theme, and you punch things.

Would wearing a gauntlet interfere with your techniques?”

She shook her head. “No, m’lord, many Guardians use gloves or punch knives. I’d prefer somethin’ light, though, if ye don’t mind too terribly. I like ta move my hands.”

Hm, maybe cloth gloves, then? But they don’t store a lot of mana... I’ll have to think about that.

“Makes sense. I’ll see what I can come up with.” I scribbled ‘Gauntlet of Punching’ down on my list and turned to Patrick. “You got any ideas, Patrick?”

Patrick brightened at finally getting his turn. “Something to amplify my spells. Give them a little more kick.”

Not a bad idea. Might be good if we could get him to the point where hecan handle that shadow monster in one or two hits.

“Amplification items are tricky, but I’ve already done a little research on them. It’ll probably have to be a single element one for now. You good with something that makes your fire spells stronger?”

His eyes went wide and he vibrated with enthusiasm. “I’d love that.” “Okay. I’ll see if I can put something together, but you’ll probably need tohelp me build it, since it’ll take fire mana.” I looked at Marissa. “Also, I might need your help for your own gloves, Marissa.”

Marissa nodded. “I’d be glad to serve you.” She was still blushing a bit. I didn’t understand why.

I wrote down ‘Fire Amplification Amulet’ below Sera’s gauntlet. “Okay. I think we’re good for now. Let’s plan to meet up and talk about ideas again in a week. We’ll grab Jin next time, too.”

After that, I nudged them gradually out of the room. I had a lot of work todo.

***The next few days involved a lot of studying.

Professor Vellum had assumed that telling me that using my attunementwas already draining my mental mana would make me more comfortable using it directly.

She’d been wrong. It had the opposite effect.

I was now deathly afraid of using my attunement at all.

I knew it was irrational. I hadn’t suffered any obvious side effects from using the attunement, and I knew that other people used their attunements actively all the time. The attunements were built for people to use them.

But I still couldn’t get past the idea that I was going to burn out my mind. So, I turned to alternate ideas for how to make my attunement stronger.

I dug through books, bothered teachers, and nagged second year students for ideas. Advancing attunements was one of the main goals of any student, so there were lots of studies on different ways of doing it.

Most techniques were designed to supplement practice with the attunement itself. Some of them were attunement-specific exercises. Summoners tried to make as many small summoned fragments as possible, or to quickly summon and dismiss the same one. There were different schools of thought about how Elementalists should train, but usually they involved casting the biggest spell you could and then resting and doing it again.

For Enchanters, the most popular method was just to enchant progressively stronger items, but relying as heavily as possible on the mana that was directly connected to your attunement.

So, pretty much the exact opposite of what I’d been doing.

I hit up the Divinatory and learned that my mental mana had advanced from my minimal use of my attunement, but only a bit. I’d gone from starting with 18 at the beginning of the year up to 22.

I was informed that most students had somewhere between 30 and 60 mana in their attunement’s location by this time in the year. I was lagging pretty far behind in that area, but I’d improved my right hand’s mana considerably. It’d gone from 24 at the start to 40, just under double.

Apparently, having more mana somewhere outside of my attunement was a very bad idea, because I got scolded for it by no less than three different students and teachers before I left.

No one seemed to be able to tell me why it was so bad to have my mana unbalanced like that; they just seemed to be regurgitating what they’d heard elsewhere. Still, I tried to internalize a core part of the message. I really needed to bump that mental mana up as quickly as possible.

On the plus side, I knew my enchanting was working for improving my mana. I’d just been improving the wrong type.

My first idea was looking into a way to shift my mana from my right hand into my mind. That way, I could keep training the same way and just convert the mana over.

So, I did some reading on that. Apparently shifting a person’s mana balance was an entire field of study, and strongly connected to ongoing research in how to make artificial attunements. There were some promising studies coming out of Caelford, but the essence of what I learned was that I’d need to study for years to even start attempting that kind of thing.

It was a fascinating subject. The idea of making artificial attunements appealed to me on a very fundamental level. I kept some of the books and planned an eventual trip to Caelford to talk to some of the researchers there, but for the moment, that was nowhere close to a viable approach.

Next was looking for ways I could boost my mana without exercise. This was, of course, also something that had already been heavily explored by others. Virtually everyone wanted to avoid doing work, or find ways to make it more efficient.

I found out that they were having a relevant lecture in the alchemy class the following week, so I dropped in on it. The teacher, Professor Zou, was a short woman that looked like she hailed from Dalenos.

“Many of you have asked me how to distill enhancement elixirs. The answer is simple: don’t. You are not ready.”

She pointed to a student. “Yun. Why do Enchanters not transfer mana into other attuned?”

The student stood. “Every person has slightly different mana, Professor.

The body resists and rejects foreign mana.”

Professor Zou nodded. “Yes, this is true. You may sit.” As the student sat back down, she lifted one of the vials from a stand on her speaker’s podium. “This is the simplest of enhancement elixirs. To create one, a student must learn to collect their gray mana into a liquid state, which is already a feat that most students cannot learn until they are of Carnelian Mage level. Then they must purify it. Even some Citrines cannot do this through their attunement alone. Instead, we have studied how to distill mana. But an ordinary still will not work for this purpose; heating the mana to evaporate it will alter it toward an affinity with fire.”

The teacher drew a multi-chambered device on a slate at the back of the classroom. “This is an elixir still. It is not a standard alchemist’s still; it is specifically designed for this purpose. This chamber houses the liquid mana. This funnel,” she pointed at the design, “is used to add in a distilling agent. The agent is a unique mixture based on the exact composition of the base mana, designed to force it to evaporate while exposed to room temperature air. From there, the evaporated mana collects here.”

Professor Zou pointed at another chamber above the vial. It led into a diagonal-facing tube that pointed toward another large chamber. “This tube is a condenser. Typically, a non-magical apparatus is used to cool this chamber, gradually re-forming the mana into a liquid state. It gradually drizzles down the tube into the collection chamber, here.”

The professor pointed at the last chamber in the diagram. “If you have succeeded, the elixir will be collected here. There are numerous points of potential failure. If you were incorrect about the original composition of your mana, the potion is toxic. If you mixed it with the wrong distilling agent, your potion is toxic. If you mixed in an extra drop of the distilling agent, your potion may be toxic.”

She steepled her hands in front of her. “And, for all this effort and risk, a basic enhancement elixir,” she raised the first vial she’d shown us, “will not raise any of your mana types by a single point. You would need to drink these elixirs for weeks to see any noticeable effect. Stronger elixirs exist, of course, made by Citrines and Emeralds. The least expensive of them are sold for hundreds of gold. The greatest elixirs are often traded for artifacts or entire plots of land.”

...So, that approach was going to have to be put on hold.

I considered asking about the liquid that I’d taken from the inside of the tower, but I wasn’t comfortable sharing its existence with a teacher that I didn’t know. I decided I’d try to do a bit more research on the water on my own first, and I’d approach her or one of the other teachers about the fluidlater on.

On the positive side, I was more excited about the capabilities of alchemy than I ever had been previously. Just the existence of permanent enhancement potions was a potential for changing lives. If I could find a way to make these enhancement elixirs in a more efficient manner than the established methods, I could not only make a fortune — I could potentially change society.

Of course, I hadn’t even made a single basic potion yet, so that kind of thing was a long way off.

The class did lead me to another important discovery, though. Something the teacher mentioned casually at the end of the class.

“If you’re desperate for a method of strengthening yourself, go to the market and purchase iros fruit. They are a natural food that contains a small bit of gray mana. Eat one each day and you will grow strong in time.”

I did some research on that. Most sources agreed that they worked, but it was very slow. So slow that some sources disputed that the fruits themselves were doing anything, since people could grow stronger mana pools from every day activities.

Still, the fruits were cheap, so I started adding them into my diet. I also learned about other fruits that were said to contain other forms of mana and, grudgingly, I turned on my attunement for a few seconds to look at each of them in the market.

They did glow. Faintly, very faintly, but they did glow.

I bought lavris fruit by the bunches. They supposedly contained a little bit of mental mana, and any of that might help. They looked a little weird. A bit like apples, but with blue skin and more juice. They tasted fine, though. More like a peach than an apple, but tolerable.

Now that I knew about them, I started noticing a lot of other students were doing the same thing. The fruits weren’t served in the cafeteria, but I often saw people walking around with them, or even bringing some with them to regular meals. Apparently, my idea wasn’t revolutionary, but that was fine. As long as it worked, it didn’t need to be.

By the end of the week, my mental mana was up to 27. The gain was much bigger than what I’d been getting per week up to that point, so the fruit was helping... but not enough to catch me up completely.

If I wanted to hit Carnelian before I went back into the tower, I still needed a better plan.

***The next weekend, I arrived on time at Professor Vellum’s office as she’d directed me.

She wasn’t there.

I sat in a chair next to her door, studying with the expectation that she might never arrive, for a good half hour before she finally deigned to show up.

Vellum walked right past me without a glance, unlocking her door, and stepped inside.

I rolled my eyes, waited about a minute, then knocked. “Come in.”

Vellum sat behind her desk, sipping from a steaming cup of tea. She hadn’t had the tea with her when she entered. “Well, well. You’re actually here. I confess to a bit of surprise. Perhaps you won’t be my greatest disappointment.”

I sighed, taking a seat in the chair across from her. “I’ll endeavor to be at least your second greatest disappointment, then.”

“Ah, that’s the spirit.” She gave me a wry smile. “I can appreciate a bit of ambition. Now, what are we studying today?”

I pursed my lips. Wasn’t she supposed to guide the lesson?No, of course not. This was Vellum, she wasn’t going to make anything simple.

“We’re going to work on elemental shielding sigils.” I reached into my bag, withdrawing a few pieces of paper with sketched-out rune designs for a few ideas on how they might work.

She tilted her head at the papers, glanced them over, and looked back at me. “Because you got a little torched in the last test? Pfft. Don’t bore me, Corin. You’re being reactive with that, not proactive. That means it’s only going to solve a very specific problem.”

Vellum shook her head, setting her cup down and pointing at one of the papers. “This won’t work.” She flipped it right onto the floor, looking at the next one. “Better, but the central sigil is wrong.” Flip. “This one is worse than the last one, but the third sigil is interesting.” She slid it back toward me. “You can finish them on your own.”

I picked up the discarded papers from the floor. “Thanks.” I folded them gingerly and set them back in my pouch.

“Now, what are we going to study today?”

I frowned. I didn’t know exactly what she was looking for. Something more like the sword, with unique or hard to find runes?That wasn’t what I wanted. I spat something out without even thinking about it. “I want to make something that continuously makes me stronger.”

Vellum grinned. “Ah, now that’s interesting. An item that feeds mana to the user?” She leaned forward. “Possible, possible. Suitably ambitious and interesting.”

“Aaand,” she poked me in the forehead, “you’re only asking so you can run away from one of your problems. So the answer is still no. Try again.” She leaned back in her chair, folding her arms.

“Last try, or today’s session is over.”

I sank down in my chair. I’d liked that idea. So, in a moment of spite, I said, “Fine. I’ll research that one without you.”

“Oh?” Her eyes glimmered with an inner light. “Will you now?”

I sat up straighter. “Yes. And not just to ‘run away’, as you put it. Regardless of whether or not I start training my attunement in the way you want me to, something that passively feeds the user more mana would be incredibly useful.”

“Oh, yes. We’re in agreement. In fact, it was one of the first items I invented. I was already a Citrine Mage at that point, of course, but I’m sure you’ll manage something. Eventually.”

My desire to loot Vellum’s office for all available items sharply increased. I stretched my arms. “Of course. I’ll have to take my time to ensure my design is the best available. In the meantime, you can help me with anotherproject. It’s a mana filtration system.”

Vellum raised an eyebrow at that. “What do you mean by that?”

“I took an alchemy class. They talked a lot about how difficult it is to make enhancement elixirs, since you go through a lot of work to purify them,” I explained.

“So, they’ve got this complicated distillation apparatus to get the mana into a pure state so people can drink it. I read up, and people have made all sorts of items for detecting the composition of the starting mana and the result— but they always use physical means to evaporate the liquid and purify it.” I didn’t have a drawing to show her for this; I was coming up with this idea on the spot. I just took out a piece of paper and slid an ink pen and inkwell over.

“I’m familiar with the concept, of course. Using mana on the base liquid just taints the result.”

“Right. But what if the mana you were putting into a vial was already in a pure state?” I started scribbling down some mind runes on the page. “We build a device that has all the types of mana stored in it in small amounts. They all self-refill. Let’s call it a glove, like the one I wear. I put it on, it senses my mana. I push mana through it via whatever process I’d normally use to liquefy my mana.”

I hadn’t figured out exactly how to do that yet. I’d read up a bit, though, and it didn’t sound that hard. Getting excited, I continued. “So, then the gauntlet detects the composition of my mana, and it adds whatever types it needs to compensate for the impurities. The result?”

I left the answer open so she could share in my enthusiasm. Professor Vellum sighed. “Your hand explodes.”

My face went through several contortions before finally settling on unhappiness. I didn’t like my hand exploding. “What? Why?”

“I’m sure you’re thinking about that ‘opposites nullify’ tripe that Teft likes to throw around, yes? But that’s not true within an object. You let fire and ice meet inside your glove? Lose a hand.”

I grimaced, but that sounded solvable. “Okay, maybe the filtration could happen while it’s flowing out.”

“It doesn’t matter. Adding energy to the liquid isn’t going to just target the opposite component within that liquid. You’d be saturating the entire mana formula with that energy. You’ve got fire mana somewhere in the solution, so you bombard it with ice mana. The fire mana is nullified, but now you’ve got a solution that’s tainted by ice. It’s no better.”

I sighed in grudging understanding. “Okay, so I’d need to be able to inject exactly the right amount of mana into exactly the right parts of the solution without tainting anything else. That sounds hard, but possible.”

“Oh, it is. It’s just also harder than the normal distillation process.” She took a sip of her tea. “But don’t despair. It’s actually a good idea. You’re trying to improve an existing process, and that’s the core of what true enchanting looks like. You’re questioning established methods. I doubt this particular one will bear fruit in the way you proposed it, but you should keep thinking about it.

“Not here, in this meeting,” she clarified. “Study. Think about the problems in your current approach and how to solve them.”

I nodded gratefully. That was probably the most encouragement she’d ever given me. “Okay. What about for now?”

“What about for now? I’ve turned you down on three ideas. You’re done for the week. Come back next Wyddsay and have something better for me.”

“Okay.” I paused for a moment, thinking. “But before I go, I’d like to work on some items for the test, and I need funding. You’d mentioned giving me some items to work on that you could sell?”

“I haven’t forgotten our arrangement, but it seems to me like you haven’t been practicing your mind magic enough to be useful yet.”

I tensed my hands. “I’m pretty sure I can manage some basic item commissions.”

“Basic isn’t what sells, boy. But,” she relented, “I do have a few things you can work on.”

Vellum opened a drawer in her desk, withdrawing a small stack of papers. She passed them over to me. They were all intricately-written enchantmentdesigns, many of which used runes that didn’t even resemble ones I’d seen before.

“You may start with these.”

I scratched my chin as I skimmed over the first few designs. They each had at least a half-dozen runes, many of which I didn’t recognize at all. “These look pretty... involved.”

“What were you expecting? Anything of significant value is going to takeeffort, Corin.”

Fair.

“How much of the sale are you taking?”

The professor grinned. “Ah, I was wondering when you’d ask. Fifty percent.”

I narrowed my eyes as I considered that. “Fifty percent of net or gross?”

She chuckled. “Well, since you thought to ask, I’ll be kind enough to saynet.”

So, half of the earnings from each item was going into the void. That was rough, but if she was giving me the designs and selling the items, it was probably worth it. “I don’t suppose you’d be willing to front me the materials?”

She folded her arms. “You want me to take a cut of the net gains andprovide the materials? What sort of business do you take me for?”

“A very kind and helpful mentor working with a promising would-be apprentice?”

She snorted. “Your optimism warms my shriveled heart. No, I think you’ll need to figure out your own source of materials. Otherwise, I could lose money from this arrangement, depending on how much you fail.”

I chuckled. “I appreciate your boundless confidence in my abilities.”

“I’m exactly as confident as I should be. This will be simple work, but it will not be easy — especially with your mana limitations.”

That made me grimace, just as it was intended to. “I’m grateful for your help regardless.”

“But if you’re really having material problems, you should think about a better way to solve that. A longer-term method. That’s the last hint I’ll give you.”

I nodded, picking up the papers and wishing her goodbye as I left the office. I didn’t pick up on what she was suggesting immediately, but I let it swim amongst the other ideas that were gradually forming in my mind.

Vellum was a pain, but she was probably the best mentor I could have hoped for.

