CHAPTER XV — RECOVERY

By the next morning, Sera was almost ready to move. Her legs wobbled as she tried to stand, though, and I had to catch her from falling backward.

“I want to go home.” Sera frowned, burying her face in her hands.

I stood up, awkwardly putting a hand on her head. “I’ll make it happen, then. Don’t try to get up without me.”

She grumbled a little bit, but finally slumped back down on the couch.

It took me about a half hour to find someone in management and convince them to send a couple of the staff to help me carry Sera home. We were fortunate that injuries and mana exhaustion were common enough events that they always had overnight staff.

While we were heading down to pick up Sera, one of the staff members— a bouncer, from the look of him, remarked, “At least she didn’t get torn up like the last team.”

“What happened to them?”

“Ogre nearly tore one of the guy’s arms off, then smashed his partner in the face. Had to rush them both to the hospital.”

That revelation did wonders for my mood.

I decided that next time, I’d put my gauntlet back on before punching Derek.

All in all, three of us took turns carrying Sera until we managed to get her back to her dorm. And by “taking turns”, I mean the two of them took turns, and I “supervised”. I wasn’t strong enough to carry Sera more than a block at best.

The medic deemed her “stable” before we left, but advised me to keep a close eye on her, and to take her to the hospital if she started coughing blood.

A lovely image, that.

All in all, we were both in a pretty terrible mood by the time we set Seradown in her own bed. She looked pale, like she’d suffered serious blood loss, but I hadn’t seen any bleeding.

I thanked the two staff members that helped carry her — it wasn’t their fault she’d gotten hurt — and grabbed her some food from the cafeteria. By the time I got back, she’d fallen back to sleep.

***A few hours later, Sera woke in a ravenous state. I handed her the food I’d retrieved. It wasn’t fresh, but I still deemed it edible. She devoured it.

“How are you feeling?” I tried to put a smile on my face, but it was one of those obviously fake ones that I knew she’d see right through.

“Terrible.” She took another sip of the mana potion that I’d put next to her food. “This tastes like burning.”

At least she was feeling strong enough to complain. “You’re going to be drinking that lovely fire for a while. Your arm is in the worst shape, but it looks like you were drawing from other mana sources, too.”

She shrugged. “Maybe.”

“Which ones? It’s important that I know in case I need to get you to a hospital.”

Sera took another sip of the potion, grimacing, and then whispered her reply. “...all of them?”

“What was that? I’m not sure I heard you.”

“I said all of them, Corin. And, before you get into a lecture—”

I folded my arms. “You seriously risked drawing mana from your heart and your brain, Sera? That’s dangerous enough for people who have attunements in their locations. You could have killed yourself!”

She slammed the potion bottle down hard. “I am not in a mood for this argument, Corin. When your arms are hurting too much to move them, and your legs are drained to the point where you can’t stand, you’ll do what you need to do.”

My jaw tightened. I wanted to argue, but this wasn’t the time. “You’re hurt, so I’m not going to fight with you. But I’m not comfortable with you pushing yourself like that.”

“You don’t have to be. That’s the great part about this being my body, Corin. I can do whatever I want with it.” She jabbed a piece of egg with her fork. “And I do appreciate your concern, I really do, but I’m not a child. And I’m not your retainer. You can’t give me orders.”

I leaned back in my chair. “That’s fine. I know I can’t order you around.

But you’re...my sister, so I was worried about you.”

Sera’s eyes narrowed. “Sister, eh?” She took a bite of the egg, setting her fork down. “I think this might be the first time you’ve called me that withoutsounding sarcastic.”

I ran a hand through my hair. “You’re probably right. I’m sorry. I’ll try to be twice as sarcastic next time to make up for the lapse.”

***It took days before Sera was walking unassisted again, which meant I got to spend a lot of “quality” time with her.

Normally, the mana in her legs would have recovered in hours, but she’d drained herself so significantly that her body was having to prioritize what it restored first.

The first mana potion helped speed the process along a bit, getting her to the point where she could stand, but she refused to drink the other two, claiming that they made her feel nauseated.

I looked into that a little — it was apparently a pretty common side effect. I decided to dig into how mana potions worked a little later. They wouldn’t offer permanent improvements like the enhancement elixirs I had tried to research before, but I knew it’d still be useful to figure out how to manufacture them.

We were heading to the dining hall when it occurred to me to ask a critical question. “Did they ever end up paying you?”

She shook her head. “I got a letter explaining that I’d get my cut in about three weeks. It’s pretty significant, though.”

“How significant is pretty significant?” “Two hundred silver sigils.”

I let out an appreciative whistle. “I’ve never had money like that.”

She chuckled. “No kidding. I don’t think I’ve ever had a quarter of that.

I’m still trying to figure out what to do with it.”

“Might I suggest investing in one of your favorite Enchanters?”

Sera let out a snort. “I’ll think about it. It does mean I can afford to have you make me a gauntlet, at least.”

“I could make you something much better than that gauntlet with two hundred silver. But it’d be smarter for me to practice on some smaller things first, so I was sort of serious about the investment.”

“I’ll think about it. For now, food.”

It was her first day back at the dining hall — I’d been bringing food back to her room while she’d been unable to make the journey — so she set into the hall with reckless abandon.

By the time we sat down, she was carrying two full trays, and I was carrying another tray for her, in addition to my own.

There was zero chance she’d be eating all this, but fortunately the dining hall did let us pack up any left overs. Which, by the look of it, would bevirtually everything.

We hadn’t talked much about the fighting. She’d been pretty miserable during the recovery, so I tried to keep us focused on other topics. Now that she was back on her feet, though, I had some questions.

“That binding thing you were doing. That’s how Summoners get their new spells?”

She looked contemplative, even as she eviscerated a potato. “Sort of. The binding spell teaches my attunement how to make an inferior copy of whatever I hit with it. It’s not like having a real contract with a monster. A real contract is much more versatile.”

“So, if you can make a copy of something that easily, why don’t you have dozens of things you can summon? Wouldn’t your teachers just summon things in class for the whole class to copy?”

She shook her head. “Every binding we make takes up a little bit of our mana, for as long as we maintain the bond. If I had a whole bunch of them, I couldn’t summon anything at all, so it’s only worth it to keep a few.”

Sera paused, tearing off a piece of bread with her teeth. “We did learn a couple of basic summoning spells in class, but most of the teachers consider bindings worthless, since the monsters are so much weaker than the real thing.”

She took a breath. “Most people focus on making real contracts, since they have a similar cost in mana to bindings, but contracts give you more options. For example, if you have a contract, you can draw on the creature you’ve contracted for power without summoning them. That’s how I use my ice spells.”

I prodded at my own food, but I wasn’t nearly as hungry. “I remember you— or Teft, maybe? — saying something about summoning modified versions of things you’ve contracted?”

“Yeah. Like, if I had a real contract with an ogre, and I had some fire mana, I could summon a fire ogre.” She grinned. “A fire ogre. Now I want one.”

I rolled my eyes. “Okay, I get the idea. And you’re still not going to tell me what your contract is with, right?”

“Nah.”

I picked up a piece of one of her potatoes with my fork. “Well, if you’re going to be that way...”

“Hey! That’s my third favorite potato! You give it back!” I popped it into my mouth.

Sera put a hand over her heart, giving me a lamenting expression. “Alas.

It was so young.”

I chewed. “And salty.”

Sera tightened her lips. “I do want to tell you what my summoned monster is. But I can’t.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. “What do you mean?”

She sighed. “It’s part of the contract. The creature is... eccentric. I’m not allowed to tell anyone I have a contract with it until it agrees that I’m ready.”

I blinked. “That seems like a pretty bad deal.”

Sera shook her head. “No, it’s a great deal. You’ll see why eventually. But in the meantime, I can’t tell you what it is.”

“Fine, fine. But it gives you ice magic in the meantime?”

She nodded. “Yeah. And some degree of control over ice magic, which is pretty useful.”

I’d noticed that when she managed to stop the karvensi’s spell in the arena, but I hadn’t realized the ability was from her contracted monster. Interesting. “So, different contracts offer different benefits, in addition to summoning. Could you contract an ogre to make yourself physically stronger?”

She made a ‘hmm’ noise. “Maybe? I’m not actually sure about that. I’ve only looked into summoned monsters that give me enhanced magical abilities, but it sounds possible, yeah.”

“Could that be how Derek was so strong?”

She lifted up a cup of juice and took a long sip. “Ahh, something that isn’t mana potion. Delicious.” After a brief moment of savoring the beverage, she continued. “Anyway, no, he’s not a Summoner.”

“But I saw him—”

“Not sure what exactly his attunement is, but it’s different. I think he stores monsters in items, then gets power from the objects. He wouldn’t tell me about it before the match, he just said he could take care of things. It was pretty frustrating.”

“Yeah, I’d be pretty frustrated if someone who I was fighting alongside didn’t tell me about all their abilities.” I gave her an exaggerated wink.

“Oh, shush, Corin. When I can summon it, you’ll be one of the first to see, okay?”

I nodded. “Acceptable.”

“If you want to see it any faster, you could make me a mana storage device...”

We spent much of the rest of the meal talking about enchanting options.

All in all, it was a pleasant change of pace.

***I lifted up the product of three weeks of agonizing labor — a singlecrystal of gray mana, still trapped within the practice shell.

I might have slightly overestimated myself when I’d planned to figure out how to make the more advanced version in a week.

Even so, I was proud of my results.

Over the following few days, I finished filling the remaining practice molds. It was considerably easier after my first success — but I still had a pretty significant problem.

I always stopped as soon as I started feeling a headache.

I knew from speaking to various Diviners that I was being overly cautious. After a cursory test of my mana levels after finishing one of the crystals, I knew I was nowhere near the point where making one was going to put me in danger.

But I remembered what had happened to Sera after the fight, and how long it had taken her to recover.

And, more importantly, I remembered what happened to my great grandfather. The story of his broken mind echoed in my thoughts every time I considered using any significant amount of mind mana. The more I tried to fight the thoughts out of my head, the more I reinforced them.

But I needed to make my attunement stronger. I was nowhere near Carnelian yet — and I was rapidly running out of time to get there. I knew I’d never make enough progress if I kept stopping at the slightest hint of discomfort.

And that was why, if I couldn’t scour the fear from my mind, I needed to beat it through other means.

I needed to outsmart it.

And with that goal in mind, I began my next project.

***I handed the four completed crystals over to Vellum.

“Oh, you’re still enrolled here? I thought you might have dropped out from shame a couple weeks ago, since these took you so long.”

I grinned. “Sorry to disappoint you, professor. I do have other things to keep me busy.”

That was about seventy percent an excuse, but a fraction of truth was good enough to keep the smile on my face.

She just shook her head. “And I suppose you’ll be wanting the mana out of these?”

“Yeah, and I’d like to see the extraction process, if you don’t mind.” “Very well.” She nodded, laying out the crystals in a line on the table. Sheopened a drawer, reached in to withdraw something...

...and hit the first crystal in the line with a hammer.

The quartz casing exploded, chips flying everywhere.

As I gawked, Vellum took a deep breath, and then smashed the next one. And the next. And the next.

At least the mana crystals themselves remained intact.

“Ah, much better.” She set the hammer down on the table amidst the quartz powder and debris.

I stared blankly. “I...thought you said I wasn’t supposed to damage the casing?”

“Of course not, dear. I enjoy doing it myself far too much to let you do it.

Let an old woman bask in one of her few remaining joys in life, hmm?”

I sighed, taking a seat in the chair across from her. She was obviously having a little fun at my expense, but that was tolerable as long as I got the results.

I reached across the table and began to retrieve my hard-earned crystals. “Of course, professor. I would never want to deprive you of such simple pleasures. You wouldn’t happen to have any more practice crystals that I could use?”

“Oh, no, that was the last batch. You can buy them at some of the supply stores on campus, though. They’re cheap or I never would have given you any.”

“Right.” I rubbed my forehead, feeling the grit of powdered quartz dust that had stuck on my fingers when I picked up the mana crystals. “I’ll keep working on those, but I do have another question in the meantime.”

“Oh? Need some advice on how to woo a young lady, perhaps?” I blinked. Where did she get these absurd ideas?“No, Professor. A rune-related question, and I think you’re the only one here who might know the answer.”

“With those younger ladies, flattery will get you everywhere — but with me, Corin, you’re better off just keeping me entertained. I do hope this is an interesting question?”

I nodded. “Is it possible to use runes to perform mathematical calculations?”

She steepled her fingers. “That is an interesting question. If you’re thinking about making a magical device to make it easier to perform math in class, however, I’m afraid that the designs required are quite complex — and most common methods are patented, so it’s not something you could easily make and sell.”

Huh. I hadn’t been thinking of something of that level of complexity, but it was good information to have. “Nothing quite like that. Basically, I’m going to have a divination rune that checks for a value, and then I need to run itthrough an equation and display the resulting number on a surface. I found the runes for the first step, and I think I know how to make the number display, but I couldn’t find anything on the middle part.”

Vellum leaned back in her chair. “That’s not terribly difficult. You want to run the number through the exact same equation every time?”

I scratched my chin. “Yeah. I think so? I’m pretty sure the underlying equation stays stable, but I admit I haven’t dug into it very deeply yet.”

For the first time in my recollection, Vellum looked stymied. I felt a pang of victory — I think I’d actually managed to confuse her.

“Whatever is this for?”

I tapped the attunement mark on my forehead. “You know people go to the Divinatory periodically to learn how much mana they can use safely from each part of their body?”

She waved a hand dismissively. “Important for students, certainly. Most advanced attuned learn to evaluate that by feel.”

“But that’s a flawed approach.” It was a bit of a provocative statement, but I was confident. “Even experts sometimes push themselves beyond their limits, sometimes without realizing it, and suffer permanently for it.”

Fortunately, she didn’t seem offended — just contemplative. “And you think you can solve this by...”

“Every time that I’ve gone to the Divinatory, they’ve cast a single spell to check each part of my body — then scribbled down some math and given me the result. I think they’re checking the total amount of mana flowing through each area, then running it through a simple formula to tell me how much is safe to use. I could make items that do that.”

“What’s the point? Making a permanent item like that would mean spending a significant amount of money on a service that’s inexpensive or free. It’s not worth saving a few minutes.”

I shook my head. “That’s not the point of the device — it’s just the first part. We have it measure the user’s mana at rest and store that number, and then make it visible on a surface. Then, we have it actively monitor the user’s mana, tracking how their current mana compares to the first number. We show a second number — the amount of remaining mana the wearer can still spend safely — next to the maximum value.”

Vellum lifted a hand to her chin, twisting her lips. “It could be done. You’d want to display it as a fraction — something like ten mana left out of twenty — to make it useful. But I don’t know if I like it. It could make the wearer rely on the device, rather than their own judgment.”

I shrugged at that. “If nothing else, it might help keep someone cognizant of the small mana uses that they aren’t aware of from day-to-day activities. Istill have no idea how rapidly using my attunement drains my mana, for example. How long can I use it safely? I have no idea — none of my books talk about it.”

“That’s something they should have explained in your first weeks of class.

You probably just weren’t paying attention.”

“Maybe, but I doubt I’m the only one. And when someone knows dozens of spells, and they’re in the middle of the tower, can you honestly say they’re tracking their mana usage accurately?”

She shook her head. “No, they’re probably not, but I’m not certain taking the time to check a device would be beneficial. You’d have to press it against whichever section of the body you want to measure, then look at wherever you’re displaying the numbers — not necessarily practical in a fight.”

“I was thinking something wearable, like a pocket watch on a chain. You could just grab it out of the pocket, press it to your hand or forehead or whatever, and then look at the number. I agree that might still be too dangerous in the middle of a fight, but maybe between two rooms? I don’t know about you, but I think I’d find that information valuable.”

“Perhaps. But you must understand that people develop a degree of pride about being able to keep track of their own mana. I’m not sure adults would value a device that makes them look incapable. I don’t know how you’d market it.”

Pride. I hadn’t thought about that. But it actually made this even easier.

“I don’t know why I didn’t think of that earlier. But, you’re absolutely right, Professor. Checking a pocket watch every room would make you look paranoid. That’s why we don’t put it in a pocket. If mana management makes people proud?”

I made a sweeping gesture with my hands. “Why not tell the whole world how powerful you are? We don’t tuck the device away. We make it a necklace, or a wrist watch. Something that shows openly and visibly, so you can show off how much mana you have. It could be a status symbol, like how some people like to show off their strongest attunement.”

Vellum wrinkled her nose. “That’s precisely the opposite of what some people would want. You know that traditionally nobles wear a glove to cover their attunements and hide their strength. Weren’t you wearing a glove yourself when we first met?”

I nodded. “And that’s precisely how we’ll make a profit on it. Pride. We can tell the younger generation that, rather than hide their power out of fear, they should flaunt it.”

Her eyes narrowed. “And if you make it competitive...”

“Even older attuned might feel compelled to do the same, to prove that they’re stronger than these upstart children.”

Professor Vellum nodded contemplatively. “It’s a clever idea. Most clever ideas never go anywhere, but I can see some potential here. So, before you sell any, you’re going to patent it.”

I blinked. “What?”

“This is, perhaps, the most important lesson that you’re going to learn from me. Anything of sufficient value — and I do mean anything — provokes greed. If you think you could sell more than a handful of these, you need to protect yourself. Patenting a design can be intimidating, and the paperwork is awful, but you need to do it.”

I frowned. “And if there’s already a patent out there?”

“Then you have the dubious honor of coming up with a brilliant idea that someone else already thought of. You’ll find that’s far more common than developing anything truly unique.”

“But if it is unique, and I do get a patent?”

“Then we, young Corin Cadence, are going to make a great deal of money.”

***I spent the next two weeks working on my first model of the device.

And my second, when the first one failed. I’d misunderstood how to use one of the runes, which made the calculation always evaluate to zero. Oops.

Professor Vellum was surprisingly enthusiastic about helping. I’d never seen her take any serious interest in one of my projects, but she had me check in every few days with a status update, and even made me some of the crystals that I needed.

I didn’t have anywhere near enough mental mana to make the analysis runes myself — and I couldn’t afford them — but she handled that personally.

And after all that effort? It worked.

I had a silvery disc the size of my palm attached to a chain with a fraction displayed on it: 31/31.

The last thing it had measured was my own mental mana. It had gone up a bit in the last few weeks as a result of my practice.

That puts me at Rank A in Quartz. Finally. I’m still a long way from Carnelian, but I’m making some real progress.

I wasn’t going to celebrate prematurely. I went to the Divinatory and had them run the standard tests to confirm my results.

They told me my safe mana usage would be 32.

Close enough. Probably a rounding error.

I hadn’t quite figured out how to get the device to round yet, so fractions of a mana point were simply ignored.

After confirming that it worked for my mental mana, I checked the rest of my body...

...and those were all wrong.

That didn’t keep me stuck for very long. After asking a few questions, I realized my problem. I was always running the same formula, which I’d found in a book about evaluating safe mana usage for the mind specifically.

Every body part had a different “safe” tolerance. That was a set value plus a percentage of your maximum amount. Apparently, as your mana pool got bigger, your body used more and more on routine bodily functions. It made a sort of sense.

So, if I wanted this to work properly, I needed it to run a different formula depending on what body part I was checking.

That was considerably more difficult. I needed to add an extra stage where it detected the type of mana, then branched out to running different equations based on the type. The device’s complexity, and thus its cost, went up considerably.

The beloved profit margins that I’d been harboring in my imagination shrank.

Still, after another few days, I managed to get it working with every part of my body. That made me beam with pride, even if I couldn’t expect as much profit.

At the end of the week, I’d finished a second functional device, which I gave to Vellum.

When she used it for a cursory test, I got a glimpse at one of the measurements she ran on her hand: 2565/2565.

And, for the first time, I understood just how far I had to grow.

She grinned when she saw me gawking, set the device down, and said, “Well, dear, now that the easy part is over. It’s time for the paperwork.”

She was right, of course. Headaches from using my attunement? I could deal with them. Existential terror at the possibility of destroying my own mind? Pretty much routine at this point.

Doing paperwork for the government? Now that was brutal.

***All told, I spent more than four weeks on what I was calling my “mana watch” project. I started wearing it around the campus. Fortunately, basic jewelry wasn’t explicitly disallowed in our uniform guidelines. I got a lot of odd stares and a handful of questions.

Sera was one of the first to comment, of course. “I know you’ve never been one for fashion, Corin, but that thing is such an affront to the concept that I’m a little worried for you. I could see fashion manifesting itself in anger just to extract vengeance for the crime you’ve perpetrated.”

I chuckled. “You’re just jealous that you don’t have a masterpiece of modern art like this. But, for the low price of — how much did you say you made in that arena, like two hundred silver? — you could have one that’s almost as amazing as mine.”

She rolled her eyes. “I’ve always liked to donate to the needy, but I think you’re beyond my help.”

“Don’t worry, Sera. Your affection is all I’ve ever needed.”

I knew it’d be a while before the patent paperwork went through — months, probably — so I wasn’t going to start selling them yet.

Instead, I just made use of my own. I’d activate it with a flare of mana, set it to check the mana in my head, and then set it down while I began to work.

I still had 24/31 mana remaining when I started getting my headache. I’d been stopping far before I was at any risk.

Even with that knowledge, my terror at the idea of causing myself harm meant that I wasn’t willing to risk spending anywhere close to the maximum that the device was telling me.

Sure, it was irrational. I knew that the values that the formula gave us were already designed to give us wiggle room for safety before we caused ourselves any permanent harm. Unfortunately, when I contemplated the consequences of pushing myself, it put me into a state of panic that no degree of conscious knowledge could counter.

The mana watch served a valuable purpose, though. With it, I managed to steel myself sufficiently to go down to half what the device told me would be safe. And that meant spending almost more than three times as much mental mana than I ever had before.

Regularly. Several times a day. After all, my mental mana recovered fast. Any mana directly connected to an attunement would recover much more quickly than normal mana would.

Within another week, I’d upped my maximum from 31 to 40. I was still behind where I should have been roughly seventeen weeks into the year, but finally, I had some chance of eventually catching up.

***I was in the middle of trying to form a mana crystal without a quartz case when I heard a knock on the door.

A conundrum.

If I got up to answer, I’d lose all my progress. The mana I was channelinginto my palm would evaporate almost immediately when I stopped concentrating on maintaining the crude mana shell around it.

I settled for a middle ground. “Who’s there?” “Corin! It’s Patrick!”

I groaned, watching the half-formed crystal in my palm flake and disintegrate as I released my focus. “Be right there.”

I pushed myself to my feet, still mourning the loss of the closest thing to a success I’d managed so far. I had a pretty good store of crystals I’d built inside quartz molds at this point, but the molds — while cheap — were almost as valuable as the crystals I was making.

Rather than selling the crystals directly, I’d been making simple practice items with the crystals, but none of them were Carnelian-level, and thus they weren’t likely to sell.

I opened the door, offering Patrick a wave. He must have seen the exhaustion on my face, because he frowned when he looked at me. “Everything okay?”

I nodded wearily. “Yeah. Just been stressed with one of my projects.” “Making another mana necklace thing?”

I shook my head. “Trying to figure out how to make mana crystals without a mold.”

“What for?”

It hadn’t occurred to me that the answer might not be completely obvious. “So I can make us better magic stuff.”

“Oh! Yeah, that makes sense. Uh, here, your sister wanted me to give this to you.” He reached into a bag on his hip, pulling out a smaller pouch and offering it to me.

I accepted the bag, lifting it curiously and hearing the clink of metal. “Running Sera’s errands now?”

Patrick chuckled. “Uh, not exactly. Can I come in?”

“Yeah, of course.” I gestured to my room magnanimously. “My home is your home.”

Patrick chuckled weakly in reply, coming in and planting himself on my bed. “Uh, about that, actually. Sort of.”

I closed the door behind him, raising an eyebrow. “What, you looking to move in? I know having a room near Roland must be grating, but—”

“Not that. I mean, you’re not wrong,” he grinned, continuing, “but that’s not why I’m here. First, check out the goods in there.”

I opened the pouch, pouring it out. A few coins dropped into my hand.

Gold coins. “What the—”

“Sera finally got paid for that whole stage thing she did. I guess they told her to set a big chunk aside for taxes, but she still got more money than I’ve ever seen out of it. That’s about half of it, I think. Sixty or so silver worth in gold coins. She wants you to make her something. Should be a note in there, too.”

Ah, her first hint of wealth and she’s already sending people to do her bidding. Oh, Sera. Mad from power at such a young age.

Or, maybe there was another explanation.

I felt like a bit of a jerk for not checking on her more frequently. “Is she feeling okay? That Survival Match took a lot out of her.”

Patrick glanced from side-to-side nervously. “Oh, yeah, she’s fine. Got a bit of a cough, but the Mender said she’s recovering. I volunteered to bring the coin coins for her because, uh, I wanted to ask you something. And to do something nice for her.”

I still wasn’t seeing where this was going. “Okay?”

“I could kind of use your advice. You aren’t, um, seeing Sera, are you?”

I blinked. Rapidly. “...no? I mean, I know it’s recent, but she’s supposed to be my family now, right?”

“Ah, um, that’s good. I mean, you two were always close when you were younger, and I thought maybe there was something, like, romantic...”

I waved a hand to cut him off. “It was never like that. At least, not for me. She was supposed to be trained to be one of my retainers. We were close friends. We still are. Kind of like my friendship with you, actually.”

I still wasn’t clear where this line of questioning was leading. Why would my feelings for Sera be relevant?“Oh, great. That’s... well, you see, I’ve been thinking about asking Sera to the winter ball.”

Oh.

Oh!I laughed, to which Patrick’s expression turned to utter horror.

“You... oh... I don’t have a chance, do I? Is it really that funny?” His cheeks flared crimson.

I waved both hands. “Oh, no! Sorry, Patrick. I was laughing at myself for completely missing what you were getting at until you hit me over the head with it. I never realized you had any interest in Sera!” I paused, scratching my chin.

I never really asked either of them about how they’d been getting along in the years I was away. Honestly, I didn’t really ask either of them about how they’ve been doing in general. I need to be better about that.

Either way, I can’t see how Sera would have a problem with Patrick justasking.

Having reached my conclusion, I continued, “You’re fine. I don’t see any problem with you asking her.”

Patrick turned his head to the side. “Yeah, except that I’m not good enough.”

Okay, definitely not seeing what’s going on here again.

I folded my arms. “How so? You’re athletic; you’re doing fine in class...”

He chuckled. “I’m a nobody, Corin. That might have been fine when we were kids. She was a retainer for a noble house, but that’s only one rung above a commoner. Not insurmountable. Now, she’s like you. A full-on noble.”

“You really think that still matters these days?”

He gave me a solemn nod. “Yeah. It really does. It’s great that you don’t care about that sort of thing. It’s something I like about you. Lots of people our age don’t care about it. But think about your dad, Corin. Would he approve of Sera Cadence going to the winter ball with the son of a carpenter?”

I frowned. “No, not really, but I’m pretty sure he wouldn’t approve of her going to a dance with anyone. My plan would be to not tell him.”

“Would that be Sera’s plan, though? She cares about face a little more than you do. She’s proud to finally be a noble. And it’s not just ‘a dance’. The winter ball is a big event. It’s not just for our school; it’s a city-wide event. All sorts of nobles are going to be there, and she’d probably want to be dancing with one of them.”

I hadn’t really considered that. Maybe the title meant more to her because she hadn’t been born with it?Would she really care enough about status to turn down a friend for some kind of stupid school dance?Probably not, I decided, but she might be disappointed that she was going with a friend instead of someone she considered to be a worthy suitor.

I scratched my chin. “Did you want me to ask her on your behalf or something?”

“Oh, goddess, no.” He held his hands over his eyes. “I have something bigger to ask for, actually. Something I’d been meaning to ask you anyway, outside of this.”

I waggled my eyebrows at him. “What, you want to take me to the ball instead?”

He let out a weak laugh in reply. “No, but I do have a serious request.”

He stood from the bed, straightened himself to his full height, and then knelt down in front of me. “Corin Cadence, will you accept me into yourservice?”

What.

I blinked. “Uh, what are you doing?” I mean, I knew, but—“I’m asking for you to formally make me one of your retainers. I know that’s not a simple request. I...uh, brought a copy of the oath, if you’re willing.”

I laughed, putting a hand to my head.

I’d...always wanted a retainer. Someone to watch my back, to tell me when I was being an idiot. Someone who could cover for my weaknesses and reinforce my strengths.

Of course, I’d expected it to be Sera kneeling in front of me. If life had taken a little different path, we would have taken formal oaths to each other the day after we’d received our attunements.

This was better.

I didn’t want someone to be my bodyguard because their family had pressed them into my service as a child.

Patrick’s motives might have been skewed by a desire to be close to Sera, but that was fine.

He’d stepped in to defend me against Teft on the first day of classes without me even needing to ask.

He’d stepped in to deflect a shot that would have hit me right at the beginning of the war cane test. Then we’d fought side-by-side.

And, moreover, he’d treated me like my three year disappearance had never happened. He was still the same friend I’d known since childhood.

That was the kind of person that I could trust.

If he was willing to take this serious of a step in order to be closer to my family... All the better. I couldn’t see how having a retainer with a close connection with Sera would have a downside.

I smiled and knelt down, my eyes level with his.

“I’m bad at tradition,” I explained. “But I’d be honored to have you as a retainer, Patrick. You’ve always been a loyal friend. And if you want to say the oath, I know the words.”

He winced. “I’m going to need the note.” “Well, get it out, then.”

Patrick opened his pack, retrieving a carefully rolled scroll. A scroll. This really was formal.

He broke the wax seal on the scroll and unrolled it, and he began to read. “I, Patrick Wayland, do hereby swear my loyalty to Corin of the House ofCadence.

I offer him my strength of arms, my wise council, and my life’s blood. I will serve no other master.

I will make no other oath that would betray this one.

I will take no action that would betray my master’s trust. I offer this service of my free will and with honest intent.

May the goddess witness this oath and bind me with this pledge.”

I felt a foreign pang of emotion that I couldn’t quite characterize. I’d never been good at emotions, but there was something bittersweet about the scene we were playing out. I think a part of me wanted to let out a few tears in that moment.

I took a deep breath.

“I, Corin Cadence, do hereby accept you, Patrick Wayland, into the service of House Cadence.

I will be sheltered by your strength, be guided by your council, and be preserved by your blood.

I will honor your oath with my own.

I will entrust you with my safety, for you are my shield.

I will entrust you with my knowledge, for you are my guide. And I will grant you my strength, for you are my hand.

My house is now your own, and you will always have shelter there. I accept your bond of my free will and with honest intent.

May the goddess witness this oath and bind me with this pledge.”

I closed my eyes and, with the slightest hint of a tear forming, chuckled softly. “Arise, Patrick, retainer of the House of Cadence. I think we have some paperwork to sign.”

He extended his hand and I clasped it. And, with that, we stood as one.

***I spent much of the rest of the day with Patrick, between dealing with the paperwork that we’d need to mail off to formally make him my retainer and just discussing how he should approach Sera about the dance.

We ended up agreeing that we’d wait until we received a formal acceptance of his new status before he’d ask. Not because we thought Sera would disapprove otherwise, but because it would put Patrick in a stronger position.

When I handed in the paperwork at the courier’s office, I knew the firstplace it would be going was to my father. His signature would be required to formalize the process. Even as a potential family heir, I couldn’t take on a new retainer without his express permission.

I didn’t foresee any problems, though. If anything, this would probably be one rare event in which my father would actually be pleased. Earning a retainer would help legitimize me as a noble.

I hadn’t passed Patrick my glove. That was a more significant step, essentially trusting a single favored retainer to be my primary one. Since I didn’t even have multiple retainers, it seemed like the gesture wouldn’t mean as much. I’d planned to give it to Sera when we’d been young, but she’d been literally groomed from birth to protect me, so it would have been strange not to.

In retrospect, I hoped that bringing Patrick into my service wouldn’t offend Sera — it was possible she’d been considering asking him to work for her — but I didn’t think it would pose a problem. Retainers in service to a specific family member were still expected to be a part of the household and work closely with everyone else in the house; serving me in specific was more of a formality, at least from my perspective.

Of course, if he actually wanted to try to marry her, that would be a bit more complicated, but I wasn’t thinking of that as a serious possibility. We were teenagers, and he had a passing crush.

Probably.

I didn’t really understand relationship stuff.

Anyway, with that hurdle cleared, I got back to my work and my newly- acquired pile of gold.

Sera’s letter had, unfortunately, left explicit instructions on what I was supposed to do with it.

“Corin,I’ve been working on a priority list for items that I think we need for the next test. Of these, I believe my top priorities are as follows:Mana storage or some other method of increasing my mana capacity.

A method for increasing the power of my summoned creatures. Ideally, something to provide a vast amount of power in an emergency.

Teleportation or flight. Stronger defensive measures. Healing.

I would like for you to build me as powerful of an item as you can for one of the five above functions, in order of priority. If any gold is remaining after the first item is completed, focus on the second, and so forth. You may keepone of the six coins as your commission.

See me if you have any questions. Yours,Sera”

I wanted to argue with her priorities to work on what I thought was important, but I couldn’t disagree with her. That was actually a really solid list.

I did, however, need considerably more detail to know which option to work with. So, I went to visit Sera to ask her directly.

She wasn’t at her room, so I ended up spending the rest of the day working on my own projects. I finally remembered to talk to her again a couple days later.

When she opened the door to her room, she folded her arms, glowering at me. “Corin. To what do I owe the magnanimity of your presence?”

I blinked. “I wanted to talk to you about the items you wanted?”

She wrinkled her nose. “What, you didn’t want to just, decide on something important like that without me?”

“Uh...no?” I scratched my chin. “You’re pretty obviously angry at me, but let’s assume I’m a complete jerk and don’t know what you’re talking about.”

“Ugh. Come in.” She gestured and I followed her inside. She shut the door loudly, but I wouldn’t quite call it a “slam”.

Back to folded arms. “I just received a letter from father asking what Ithink about your decision to offer a retainer position to Patrick.”

Oh.

Well, this is awkward.

“Aaaand your mad because I didn’t ask you about it first?”

She nodded firmly. “Patrick and I are friends, too, you know! Did you never consider that I might have some input? And a retainer — that’s a very serious decision, Corin. Not just for you, for the whole house!”

I winced. She was right about that, of course. And, I’d more or less promised to treat her as an equal, so making an executive decision about Patrick without even bringing the idea up to her...might have been a little bit hasty.

“I’m bad at these things, Sera. Sorry?” I put my hands up in a gesture of surrender.

“This is not a matter where a simple apology will be sufficient, Corin. Did you ever consider that maybe, just possibly, I had been thinking about making him my retainer?”

“Afterward,” I admitted, “But that probably would have made things moreawkward.”

“What, is asking me something really so difficult?”

I lowered my eyes, shaking my head while I considered how to address the situation. “Uh, no. It’s not that at all. There were...special circumstances? If I told you more, it might be a problem with Patrick.”

She narrowed her eyes. “Are you saying you didn’t consult me because Patrick has some sort of problem with me? Because, you know, that would be an even bigger reason to talk to me before—”

“It’s not that, Sera.” I sighed. “I’m bad at this, so Patrick is just going to have to forgive me for being blunt. Has he asked you anything...uh, event related, recently?”

She frowned, looking briefly introspective. “No?”

I wiped my forehead. “Okay, spoiling the surprise here. He wants to ask you to the winter ball. And, since you’re a noble now, he was worried that would be inappropriate. Of course, asking you to make him your retainer right before asking you to a dance would look like he was just trying to get in your pants to move up the social ladder. So...”

“...you made him your retainer, so that he could have sufficient standing to ask me to a dance.”

I made a concluding swish of my hands. “Precisely.”

She put a hand over her eyes. “Are you daft, Corin? You let him take a life-long sacred oath so he could ask me to a dance?”

“Mmm. When you put it that way, it does sound pretty bad. But he was so sincere and adorable about wanting to ask you—”

Sera sighed, folding her hands in front of her. “Corin. For the future, please promise me you will not make any life-altering oaths in order to influence my love life.”

I considered that for a moment. “Wait, wouldn’t agreeing to that be a contradiction? I mean, wouldn’t I literally be making a—”

She took a step closer, looking me in the eyes. “Corin. I’m not kidding with you here. I am not amused by this, but I can tell you didn’t have any malicious intent. You thought he was being romantic. Fine. That is not a sufficient reason to make a decision regarding our house without my knowledge. Especially if it was to enable someone to court me.”

That wasn’t the only reason. I really did want Patrick as a retainer.

I took a deep breath. I wanted to argue, to snap back that the oath was between me and Patrick, but the more I thought about it, the more I realized that she had a point.

I’d put her in a bad position. If he’d gone this far out of his way just to get the standing necessary to ask her to a dance, saying “no” to him would bedevastating. Which meant that I’d just put a bunch of pressure on Sera, without even considering how she felt about the situation.

I turned my head away. “Okay. You’re right. I made a decision that impacts you without even thinking about it. I’m sorry, and I won’t do it again. From this point on, I’ll talk to you about any other house-related matters before I make any decisions.”

“House-related or anything pertaining directly to me, Corin.”

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m sorry. I just... didn’t want to ruin the surprise of him asking you. You know?”

“I understand, Corin. If he was just asking for advice from a friend, that’s fine. I don’t expect you to tell me about that. But for what it’s worth? You don’t know a thing about my love life. You’ve never asked. And, as it happens, I already have a date for that dance.”

“...Oh.”

She folded her arms. “And now, you get to share in my awkwardness.

Assuming Patrick ever gets up the resolve to ask.”

And that was how I learned to never interfere in the relationships of my friends.

***It was about twenty more minutes before we’d finally finished talking things out and gotten to a point where she was willing to talk to me about business again.

I pointed at the list. “Okay, first item. Mana storage device.”

She sat down on the floor, and I sat across from her, the paper between us. “Yeah. Seems rather obvious - running out of mana is a common problem, so I could use something that would help me refill my supply.”

“I figured that was your plan. Unfortunately, that particular route won’t work.”

She twisted her lips. “Why not? It sounds like a simple enchantment.” “It is. It would, however, also probably kill you.”

“What?”

I chuckled. “A little hyperbole, maybe. So, when I enchant something, the item basically has my mana signature on it. Even if you store mana in it, that mana is getting exposed to my mana that’s in the device all the time. And mana belonging to other people is generally toxic.”

“Even for siblings? Wouldn’t we have similar mana?”

I...hadn’t thought of that. “Maybe? I don’t actually know how dangerous that would be... probably less than it would be for strangers, yeah. We probably do have similar types of mana. But I don’t know how far that goes. I’ve never heard of anyone sharing mana.”

And, while I wasn’t going to say it out loud — she’d just finally started to forgive me for my blunder with Patrick — I wasn’t actually certain we were siblings. Half-siblings seemed more likely, if even that. Knowing my father, this whole “legitimizing” her could have been a political game of some kind.

Could I determine that through magic? Almost definitely, I decided.

I imagined magical paternity tests were probably routine for cases where people were accused of infidelity, and someone had probably come up with a way to test people further removed for bloodline connections. Like to determine if someone was from a royal line, for instance.

I’d have to look into that at some point.

“Okay, so it’d be a risk. How hard would it be to try it with just a small amount of mana?I scratched my chin. “I don’t actually think you could use a storage device even if I made one, unless you have a spell to pull mana out of things. Shapers can do that, and I think more advanced Enchanters might be able to, but I don’t think it’s a standard thing for all attunements.”

“Oh. I guess I was just picturing something where I push on a rune and it starts sending mana into me until I push the rune again?”

I shook my head. “Your skin would block it. We’re all naturally resistant to mana getting into our bodies from outside sources. It’s not a simple process to force mana into someone. That’s part of why you see so many offensive spells that focus on throwing projectiles — or making an attack explode right in front of someone — rather than, say, making a fireball inside someone’s body. Even if you made physical contact, which would make it somewhat easier, you’d have to force your mana through the body’s natural insulation.”

She stared at the page, looking contemplative. “Huh.”

I don’t think I’d ever managed to stymy her so thoroughly before. Nice.

“Wait, what about how Derek’s monster helped recharge my mana during the Survival Match?”

I thought about that. “I don’t know a lot about how monsters work, honestly. I assume it had some way of purifying the mana to make it safe, then it probably had to force a lot of mana into you to get through your skin. I can’t make an item that does that at my level of skill.”

She seemed to accept that answer, but I decided I’d have to look into it more at some point. Mana recharging charging items could be useful. In the meantime, I had an alternate suggestion. “If I had mana in an item and put in a rune to eject it into the air, would you be able to reshape it into a spell?”

Sera frowned. “Don’t think so. If it was ice mana, maybe I could make an attack out of it? But doesn’t mana dissipate quickly in the air?”

“Yeah, it’d be inefficient. You’d probably lose a lot of mana that way.

Don’t know another way to make a storage device you could use, though.” We sat for a minute in silence.

“What about something that just added more mana into a spell I’m casting?”

“Maybe?” I considered the idea. How would that work? “I don’t know enough about how your spells work to answer that, honestly. I pretty much just shove mana at things.”

“So, my incantations determine the spell that I’m casting. Different incantation? Different spell. Except there are these things called ‘shaping lines’. They’re extra lines I can add to an incantation to change the way it works, with an extra cost. When I finish the spell, my attunement draws the necessary mana out of me, and the spell happens.”

I nodded. “Do you guide your attunement toward which parts of the body it draws from?”

“Yeah, I can do that.” “How?”

“Just by thinking about where I want it to take from.”

I scratched my chin. “There’s some potential there, then... if you could get your attunement to think an item was a part of your body, maybe it could reach into the item to pay the mana cost. But that might mean passing the mana through the object into your body before the spell goes off — which could, as we discussed earlier, make you sick. If you could even use the item at all.”

“Okay, what about setting up the item to detect when I’m casting a spell, detect the result of the spell, and channel mana into the result?”

That...seemed possible, but it also didn’t seem to help. “Yeah? You could do that, but I don’t think it’d make your spell any cheaper.”

She pointed at the second item on the list. “I was thinking something more like that. Or, in between the first item and the second.”

“Oh, to make the spell stronger? Yeah, that actually seems pretty doable. But would just throwing extra mana into a summoning spell actually do anything useful?”

She nodded. “Yeah. Summoned monsters are really good at shaping mana for their own uses. Remember that karvensi I summoned?”

“Sure.” I frowned. “Now that you mention it, he was casting a lot of spells.”

“And spells I couldn’t provide the mana for. I don’t have lightning or fire mana. Summoning spells use transference, air, and gray mana. He got the mana that was left over from the spell after I finished summoning him - andhe reshaped it himself. If I’d given him more mana to work with, he could have done more with it.”

Huh. “That reminds me — wasn’t he using some of the same spells you were, but without incantations?”

“Yeah. Using incantations for broad-area spells seem to primarily be a human limitation — monsters shape their magic naturally, so they generally don’t need them.”

That was interesting. Could I figure out a way to set things up for a human to distribute mana across a broad area without incantations like a monster could?One more research project for the long list.

“Okay, yeah. I think we can make a spell-enhancement item work. In fact, I could probably make something similar for Patrick if I can afford it.”

She frowned when I said Patrick’s name. That was not a good sign.

I continued, “Anyway, do you want me to spend everything you gave me on the one item, or try to save some for additional items?”

“Gimme the strongest thing you can make. We can always make more items later. I’d rather have one really good item that isn’t going to be replaced when you get stronger in a few months.”

I agreed with her logic. “Okay. Do you want something that’s self- recharging or something we have to manually refill?”

She raised an eyebrow. “What’s the advantage of the latter?”

“Half as many runes for me to make, so I don’t have to buy as many crystals. That means I can buy a bigger crystal to give it a larger mana capacity.”

“Got it. Go with that, then.”

“You sure? That means you’ll probably only be able to use it once per test. If even that — recharging something we make with a big crystal is going to be hard.”

“Yeah, I’m sure. I’d rather have a strong emergency measure.” “Okay. What mana type do you want?”

That one took her a minute of consideration. “Gray. As much as I want to say ice, it’d be too hard to recharge, and less generally useful.”

I didn’t quite understand her hesitation. “Wouldn’t gray work for anything?”

She shook her head. “For any summoning spell, yes. But not for my normal offensive ice spells, and I might want to hit something with a really powerful ice storm, rather than call on a summoned monster. I can convert gray mana, of course, but that’s inefficient.”

“Oh, that makes sense. Maybe if this ends up working we can make youan ice one eventually.”

“I’d like that, but let’s not get too far ahead of ourselves. I’m not thatrich.”

I grinned. “Not yet. Okay, let’s settle on this one as my next project, but I wanted to discuss some of these other ideas for the future...”

The rest of the conversation was much more pleasant, but I knew that I had a lot more work to do before she was going to truly trust me again.

