CHAPTER XVIII — RECONIASSANCE

I stood staring at the retreating spiral of gargoyles and karvensi, lost in thought until I noticed that one of them was coming down, rather than up.

Vanniv landed next to me, and then turned his own gaze upward with a smug grin. “Hah! See that? Just a few minutes and I’ve got ‘em all running!”

I rolled my eyes. “I’m pretty sure that’s not why they’re leaving, Vanniv.

Also, flying, not running.”

He waved a hand dismissively. “Semantics. The point is that they’re fleeing from my majesty and might.”

I rubbed my forehead. “...right, right. Let’s get back to the others.”

Jin was already standing by the time we reached him, although he looked a little wobbly. Marissa silently helped steady him, but Jin waved her away. She looked like she was almost ready to collapse herself.

I slowed down for the two of them. “Jin, how are you feeling?” Jin grimaced. “The healing was thorough. I am well.”

That was a tremendous relief. “I’m glad to hear it. Let me know you feel any resurgence of pain, though.”

He gave me a hasty nod, looking a little uncomfortable. I was still concerned, but it was clear he didn’t want me to press further.

Marissa stumbled, nearly falling, and Jin had to catch and steady her. She blinked, looking about as surprised as I was. “My head feels swimmy.”

“You probably overused your mana. You need help walking?” She paused and then nodded. “If you don’t mind terribly.”

I slipped an arm under her shoulder and we continued walking.

The rest of the group was steadily making their way toward us. Teft still looked unsteady, nearly tripping more than once. I’d never seen him anything other than completely collected and in control. The sight was disconcerting.

Especially since Mizuchi had taken that much out of him with a singleattack, and one that wasn’t even directed at us. Just how much of a gulf was there between that serpent and an ordinary monster?I knew intellectually that monsters from higher up in the tower were supposed to be progressively stronger, but the sheer difference in scale was mind-boggling.

I could still see the vast creature flying toward the top of the tower. On an impulse, I activated my attunement for just a moment.

Mizuchi’s aura was a deep green. It was the first Emerald-level aura I’d seen in person. Mother had called herself an Emerald, but I’d only seen her aura in a vision through someone else’s eyes.

I knew Orden’s tunic was supposed to carry an Emerald-level enchantment, but I’d never been able to see the aura. Presumably her Illusionist abilities were keeping it hidden.

Emerald. I glanced at Teft, confirming my suspicion that his aura was a golden yellow. Citrine was on the higher end of what I’d seen within the school. I suspected Orden’s Illusionist Attunement was in the same range.

Only two levels below the monster and he’d still barely been able to defend us from collateral damage.

If Katashi decided to unleash Seiryu, the God Serpent, what chance did any of us have? As powerful as Mizuchi was, Seiryu was hundreds of times more massive. Total mana generally correlated to the size of a monster. I doubted the entire force of our military could stand against Seiryu for more than moments.

I shivered, turning to look at the area where Mizuchi had been attacking. Bodies everywhere. Some still moving, but most lying still. Dozens of dead. Maybe hundreds. I could only see one area that had been attacked, there were undoubtedly others.

If I wanted to prevent the death of thousands, I had some serious work todo.

Vanniv flapped his wings, clearing the distance to Sera in a few moments.

“Ah, my Summoner, you push yourself too far! You must be more careful.”

Sera folded her arms. “Concerned, Vanniv, or do you just want something?”

“Can’t it be both?”

Sera sighed. “We’ll finalize the details of your contract soon. For the moment, we need to go help triage any survivors over there.” She gestured toward the line of demolished buildings where Mizuchi had struck.

I nodded to her, grateful that Sera was thinking about the wounded like I was.

Teft shook his head. “Absolutely not. We are going straight back to theuniversity. It was a mistake to ever allow you children out here. What happened with Katashi? I couldn’t hear everything you were saying from a distance.”

I folded my arms. “Katashi is leaving for now. The danger has passed. We should be able to go help the injured safely.”

“Incorrect, Corin.” He pointed upward. “What do you see?”

I didn’t want to take the bait, but I scanned upward anyway. “The complete absence of a weather shield.”

Teft nodded. “And what do you think might have caused such a thing?” Patrick trudged up next to me, interjecting before I had a chance to reply.

“Giant monster serpent, obviously.”

The professor sighed. “The ‘giant monster serpent’ never left this area, Mister Wayland. And the shield has several redundant mana generators, located throughout the city.”

“Meaning sabotage,” I cut in.

“Quite. Sabotage on quite an extreme scale. Katashi himself would not bother with such an action. If he wanted to eradicate the city, he could do it himself. Rather, this implies an opportunistic action from a third party. One that was either already poised to strike as soon as anything gave them a good window, or alternatively, one that was aware that Katashi was about to launch an assault.”

Patrick frowned. “Who could have known that Katashi was going to come out here with monsters?”

I had some ideas about that. “Katashi said that there were people in high places that already knew what he wanted. He seemed to think he was being deliberately obstructed by someone in our government. He used the term ‘conspirators’.” I waved in the direction of the academy and the group started walking. Near the back, I could hear Sera talking quietly to Vanniv, presumably solidifying their arrangement.

Teft ran a hand through his hair. “That’s not surprising, but it’s dire news if it’s true. We’ve been on the brink of a war with Edria for months. This could mean someone supporting them has infiltrated our government. We need to get you to safety, then I need to know everything Katashi told you.”

“Resh. Traitors?” Patrick mumbled. “This just gets worse and worse.”

I clenched my fists at the possibility. Fighting monsters was horrible enough. I didn’t like the idea of harming any kind of living creature. War against other humans?It was disgusting to me that someone could justify that idea. But it was also all too typical. I couldn’t stand how little human life meant to so many people.

My eyes moved back to the wreckage, the survivors picking up the wounded. My jaw tightened. This was just a warning attack and it had already claimed lives.

A portion of that was on me, for my role in getting Vera out of that prison. I had little doubt that someone else would have freed her if I hadn’t. The recently dead body in front of the cell was proof enough that other people could get into the same room. But would it have played out differently if whoever else had stumbled into that cell had asked more questions? If they’d just freed that child and left her behind? Or freed Keras and left the othertwo?I didn’t know if that would have made things go better or worse. All I knew is that people were dead, and that I’d played a part in it.

I’d never fix that. No amount of service would give their lives back. I told myself I’d find their names, maybe do something for their families when I was older and more influential, but it felt hollow. Insufficient.

First, I needed to keep things from getting worse.

Then, I’d find out who was pulling the strings on this whole mess. And if it was Vera? We’d have a reckoning very soon.

***Professor Orden appeared in front of us before we managed to make it to the academy gates. I tensed, hand going for my sheathed sword before I recognized her, and I let it rest on the hilt even after I did.

I wasn’t quite sure who I could trust at this point.

True, Orden teleporting us here had managed to resolve the attack much earlier than it might have been otherwise. I was grateful for that. But her whole connection with the Voice of the Tower meant she was deeply involved with something, and I didn’t know who or what she was actually working for.

It was about time to get some real answers.

“Lyras.” Teft sounded exhausted when he spoke, his tone tinged with obvious frustration. “Can you get us to Commander Bennet? We need to talk.”

Professor Orden shook her head. “I need a minute to rest — mana is too depleted. I’ll walk with you, though. Is everyone safe?”

Ah, so now she’s concerned. I’m touched.

Teft gave her a curt nod. “Barely.”

“Sufficient.” She turned her head toward the rest of us. “I’m sorry to have sent you children into danger. Normally, I’d abhor sending you to take a risk like that — but I knew Corin had a chance to end this conflict. And he did. Well-done, Corin.”

I raised my right hand, showing her the brand. Her eyes widened justslightly. “Not without consequence. He’ll be back in a week with reinforcements if we don’t do what he wants. I need to find someone for him and bring her back to the tower.”

Orden took a step closer, tilting her head as she examined the mark. “I... that is most unfortunate. But manageable, I should hope.”

“You seem to know more about my new adornment than I do.” I flexed my hand in the air, suddenly self-conscious. “Care to share?”

Orden folded her hands in front of her. “There are multiple types of visage marks. Some are permanent signs of a visage’s favor, and they confer abilities similar to an attunement. This one, however, appears to temporary. It’s designed to ensure that you successfully complete the task you’ve been charged with.”

I raised my hand, looking at it with my attunement active for the first time. The glow that simmered from the burned flesh was a deep blue. Sapphire, I realized. Sweet Goddess. I guess levels higher than Emerald actually do exist, even if it’s possible that only the visages have that kind of power.

It wasn’t feeding power into me, though. It wasn’t like I suddenly had a Sapphire aura myself. Experimentally, I tried to reach into it to draw mana out of the mark, but I couldn’t even feel anything there. Apparently, it wasn’t meant to be a tool for my use.

“Any idea what it might do?” I lowered my hand.

Orden shrugged. “I’ve never seen one of Katashi’s marks. Visage marks are usually themed to the visage. My assumption is that if you don’t complete the task, it will most likely ‘judge’ you. I’m sure you can figure out for yourself what that entails.”

I briefly contemplated how difficult it would be to safely remove my hand.

Jin stepped up beside me, speaking for the first time I could remember since he lost consciousness. “Katashi would not have chosen you if you could not succeed.”

I wasn’t so certain about that, but I appreciated his confidence. “Thanks, Jin.”

“It is nothing. You must focus on your task. Put your doubts aside.”

I nodded. “Right. Katashi gave me a limited period of time to find someone. I should probably start immediately.”

Teft put a hand on my shoulder. “We’re in no shape to be dealing with any sort of danger right now, Corin.”

I flinched away from his touch. It was probably supposed to be reassuring, but I didn’t have the best experience with authority figures holding me.

“Right. We’ll rest first.”

Orden started walking toward the academy and we followed in her wake. “Care to fill me in on what you’ve discovered?”

I wasn’t so sure that was a good idea, but maybe I could make this work. “Sure, but only in trade.”

“Whatever do you mean, Corin?” She glanced back over her shoulder atme.

I narrowed my eyes. “Not in the mood, Lyras. You’ve been looking intothis — or things related to it — for months. And you cut me out of it, only to throw me and my friends,” I gestured to the group for emphasis, “straight into danger as soon as it was convenient for you. People are dead because we didn’t solve this sooner. I’m done with secrets, at least among the people here. I’m going to tell them what I know, and you’re going to fill in the blanks.”

She sighed. “You do realize you’re exposing them to more danger by getting them further involved?”

I scanned my group of friends. “Anyone not want to know what’s going on here? We can cut this discussion short and resume it later if anyone wants an out.”

Patrick frowned, an uncharacteristic look of seriousness on his face. “People are getting hurt, Corin. I, for one, can’t turn a blind eye to that.”

Jin nodded. “It is as Patrick says. And Katashi has marked you; I am bound to see this through.”

Marissa scratched the back of her head. “Suppose I’m curious ‘bout all this, too.”

I turned to look at Sera.

She just tilted her head at me. “Don’t even ask, Corin. Of course I want to know what’s going on. Vanniv is staying, too.”

Somehow I’d forgotten about the six-foot tall stone man with wings and impressively chiseled — possibly literally chiseled — abs.

Vanniv put a hand over his chest. “Ooh, yes. I love secrets! Tell me all your secrets.”

Professor Orden rolled her eyes. “Sera, don’t be absurd. Put that thingaway?”

She shrugged. “I could, but I’m not going to. Vanniv is not a thing. He’s an intelligent entity and he doesn’t like ceasing to exist, even temporarily.”

Interesting. Seems like Sera is thinking along similar lines to my own, even if she isn’t quite as firmly against violence.

Vanniv turned his head toward Sera, then back to Orden. “This pleases me. Let the revealing of secrets commence!”

Orden glowered at Vanniv. “Ugh. I’m tired of this discussion. If she wantsa monster like you to bring information back to the tower, so be it.”

Professor Orden paused for another moment before continuing, “We need to move somewhere more secure before we have this particular talk. Corin, I will accept your ‘trade’, given the circumstances. We’ll walk a few more minutes while I regain my mana, then I’ll teleport us somewhere secure to talk.”

I nodded. “Very well.”

I hoped that a few minutes would give Teft enough time to recover some of his strength, just in case this went as badly as I imagined it could. I didn’t think anyone else had a splinter of a chance against Orden if she did decide to do us harm.

We walked in relative silence until Orden paused, deeming it time, and instructed us to join hands. We formed a large circle before, and then she spoke.

“Spirit of wind and air, I command you!By the pact sealed between us, I invoke your power. Rise around us and within us;Carry us upon your ethereal wings to the place of greatest safety. Veiled Teleport!”

And once again, we moved.

***Fortunately, I didn’t throw up this time.

Apparently the ring had done its job. I’d almost forgotten about the headache I’d been suffering, and the pain from my nose had faded to a dull throb.

I remembered the whole incident with our last teleport as we arrived, and it occurred to me that Jin still had the ring, but that was probably for the best for now. Katashi had healed him, but I wasn’t sure how thorough that spell was. If he’d really had a lung punctured by a rib like I suspected, he probably needed the ring vastly more than I did.

Our surroundings were at least reasonably familiar, if only for their lack of décor. We were standing in a vast space of blackness, with no obvious floor or walls, and only a single floating torch shedding light.

It was the same place that Orden had taken me the first time we’d had a private talk, or at least one that was visually identical to it. I couldn’t assume it was the same one; I didn’t know enough about this space to know if there could be several of them.

Once we managed to get our bearings, Orden waved a hand toward thefloor. “You may all sit.”

Patrick frowned. “What, on the darkness? Where even are we?”

“A safe place,” Orden replied. “And worry not, I will be hospitable.” She sat down, a chair appearing beneath her as she made the motion.

Dubiously, I attempted to sit as well, finding a chair beneath me a moment later. The others followed suit, save Jin, who remained standing.

Orden waved a hand at me. “I suggest you offer some context to everyone before we get into the more recent details.”

I sighed, rubbing my temples. “I suppose I should.”

Sera shot me a frustrated look. “Yes, I’m sure some of us would very much like to hear what you have to say.”

I glanced back at Sera. “I’m sorry, Sera. Professor Orden made it clear that this information could be dangerous. I was planning to tell you after I did some more research.”

She sighed. “Fine. Just don’t make more decisions about what I should know without consulting me?”

“I can’t promise that. Even implying the existence of a secret can cause problems. And I’m sure you understand the necessity for discretion on some things. You made a contract not to tell anyone about your summoned monster, for example.”

She drew in a breath. “You have a point, I suppose I haven’t told you everything either. Fine. I’m not going to make a big deal out of this. But try to be more considerate?”

I nodded. “I will. In the meantime, let me get this story out of the way.” She waved for me to go ahead and I felt a hint of relief.

I turned so that I could face as many of our group as possible. They arranged their chairs in a circle, facing inward, so that everyone could see me while I was talking.

“Okay. So, I was in the tower for my Judgment when I found an unusual room. It had three jail cells in it, each of which contained a person. Two of them were conscious, the third was a young boy who was out cold.”

“The two people who were awake both asked for me to free them. I had a key from an earlier part of the Judgment, and I found a body on the floor of the room that was carrying a second key. We talked a bit, the young woman— Vera — tried to tell me that the masked man in the cell next to her was a criminal. Long story short, I opened the cells for Vera and the unconscious kid, then the other guy broke out on his own.”

Sera stood up, indicating she had a question, so I paused. “Yeah?”

Sera folded her arms. “Let me get this straight. You had two jail cell keys that worked on the cell doors?”

I shook my head. I’d considered this irregularity before, too. “No, ordinary keys that seemed to be designed for rooms in the Judgment process.”

“And they worked on the cell doors, just like that?” I nodded. “Yeah.”

Teft stood and joined the conversation. “Implying that whoever created the cells designed them for people taking the Judgment to open them.”

I frowned. “Or maybe they were just magic keys, designed to open any normal lock...?”

Teft scratched his chin. “Unlikely. I’ve been through the Climber’s Gates several times and I’ve seen many magic keys, but they’re always tied to specific types of locks. Did the keys vanish after you used them?”

I nodded. “Yes, otherwise I could have just opened all three with one key.”

“That indicates a deliberate puzzle-like design, then, where you’re forced to make a choice on who to free. I can see why you originally interpreted it as merely a part of the Judgment; no true jail cells would be designed to be opened by keys found by any random person in the tower.”

Sera turned to Teft. “What would the point of locks like that even be, then? It obviously wasn’t just part of the Judgment, if he set real people free.” Teft leaned forward against his cane. “I can see a few main possibilities.

One is that the prisoners were intended to be freed at a specific time, but in a way that would make it look — both to the person with the keys and the people in the cells — like they were being ‘rescued’. I consider this fairly likely.”

He raised two fingers. “Two, whichever visage was overseeing the test wanted Corin to free a real prisoner to see the consequences of his actions. Highly unlikely.”

Teft lifted a third finger. “Three. The prisoners were meant to be freed, but the time and person who freed them were irrelevant. Perhaps because they’re meant to distract from something more significant. I consider this about as likely as the first option.”

All of which implied that I’d simply played into some sort of larger plot. This was both unsettling, since I’d been duped, and a little comforting in that it took away some of my feeling of guilt for my actions.

Ah, the sweet power of deflecting responsibility.

Sera said one more thing while she was sitting down. “Could one of the prisoners have been the one who set up the whole thing?”

I considered that. “Possible, although they would have to be exceedingly patient. The prisoners said they were in their cells for days. Maybe weeks? I can’t quite remember. I don’t imagine them setting up a situation wherethey’d be stuck in a cell for that long.” “Probably not,” Sera replied.

Teft gestured to me. “We can think about this part more later. Please, continue the story.”

I nodded. “Okay, so now the prisoners are out. The unconscious kid is in bad shape, so we feed him some water. Then we make our way through the next couple rooms. We end up in this huge antechamber with a stairway to a higher floor.”

“That shouldn’t happen in a Judgment,” Teft cut in. “Clearly it did,” Lyras replied.

“Anyway,” I continued, “Katashi himself is at the top of the stairs and he’s not pleased. Vera and I run for cover. Katashi gets into a fight with the masked man — Keras — and somehow Keras manages to hold him at bay. I still don’t know how that ended, because Vera and I grabbed the kid and fled.”

Teft and Orden exchanged meaningful looks. I kept talking.

“We get into the next room, which has a spire guardian. I give Vera my weapon and she handles it. Then she points it at me, takes the kid, and tells me not to follow.” I sighed. “So, then I’m by myself.”

By this point, I’d decided not to tell them about the book. It was very clear that Professor Orden wasn’t supposed to find out about it for whatever reason. So, I continued with a minor simplification. “This cloaked figure appears, tells me it’s called the Voice of the Tower, and it ushers me into another room. There’s a fountain in there. I drink, I get an attunement. Then it tells me to carry a message to Lyras.”

I gestured at Professor Orden, “And to leave immediately. Oh, and it gave me a sword. The blue shiny one. There was an exit door in the room, so I took it.”

Definitely wasn’t going to tell them about the little flask of water I took, either.

Professor Orden stood up. “And Corin did meet his responsibility to the Voice and carried the message to me. Thank you, Corin.”

I was glad to be done with my explanation, but I had a question for her in return. “I’d really like to know who — or what — that Voice actually is.”

She nodded. “And I suppose you deserve an answer, after all this. A bit of context first. I am a member of an organization that serves as observers and messengers for the visages. We are colloquially referred to as ‘Whispers’.”

Jin tilted his head toward her a little more suddenly than I was used to see him moving. That clearly got his attention.

Teft looked startled, too. “A Whisper? You never told me—”

“You didn’t need to know, darling. Don’t make a fuss right now, I’m explaining.”

Teft let out a growl and folded his arms, looking more agitated than I’d seen him.

Was there a...thing going on between these two? I didn’t want to think about that.

Orden paced around behind her chair before continuing. “Each visage has dedicated Whispers, of course, but we all work toward a collective goal. I’m a Whisper of Tenjin. Unfortunately, I can’t let you know about the identities of any of our other members. Even telling you this much is unusual.”

I understood the logic there, but it was exceedingly frustrating.

She continued talking. “The Voice that Corin spoke to in the tower was... well, let’s call him my associate. He was evaluating Corin for membership in our organization, but I suspect that route might be difficult now. The mark on your hand makes you a tad too obvious. We tend to try to blend in.”

I rubbed at my hand. Figures that I’d be disqualified for the amazing sounding secret society at the same time I found out about their existence.

Teft grimaced. “And what have you and this ‘Voice’ been doing, Lyras?What have you gotten into?”

“A whole lot of nothing interesting, Jonathan. Investigating the backgrounds of the people that Corin freed from those cells, as well as the disappearance of Tenjin.”

“You consider that uninteresting?” Teft scoffed.

“Only in that I found so little of relevance. Whoever is concealing Tenjin is far beyond my level of power and influence. Vera and the child are nearby and already under observation. They appear to have deep ties to the government of Caelford. I’m not sure if the children are aware of this, but in spite of their distance, most of our government considers Caelford our closest allies.”

Jin put a hand to his forehead. “Caelford. Really? They’re your closest ally?”

The disdain in his tone was obvious, but I could understand it. If he really was from the royal house of Dalenos — a much geographically closer ally, sitting directly to our north — he’d have every reason to be upset.

Orden turned to him. “It’s not my opinion, Jin. As I said, that’s the stance of some people in the government.”

He grunted and gave her a nod. “Very well.”

Orden leaned up against her chair. “Now, Vera’s significance still isn’t clear to me, but she is a member of a powerful merchant family. She appears to be living with her brother, Aloras, an automobile engineer.”

Just as I’d suspected. I stood up. “Do you think that they’re spies for the Caelford government?”

“Possible, but unlikely. Allies do spy on allies at times, but they’ve been largely keeping to themselves, and we’re well aware of their presence and location. They’re not doing anything overt, which implies to me that they’re waiting for something.”

I nodded. “Like Katashi’s attack. Would they have known the location of the weather shield’s generators? Is that information public?”

Lyras pursed her lips, contemplating for a moment before answering. “An automotive mechanic does potentially have the skill set to sabotage a generator, so you have an interesting idea. If Caelford had decided to side with Edria in a conflict, they could have sent agents to take down our shield... But I don’t think they would have been able to locate all the generators. I’ll check with my contacts to see if they can determine where Aloras was during the attack. It’s an interesting hypothesis.”

I felt vindicated by the idea having some merit, at least, and sat back down.

But, on a hunch, I sat down on an empty space rather than my chair.

Another chair appeared to catch me!This place was amazing.

I needed to figure out how it worked at some point.

Orden didn’t look nearly as excited about the chair manifestation room as I did. Instead, she turned toward Teft for the next part of her explanation. “The other prisoner that Corin freed was Keras Selyrian. I’m sure you’ve heard the stories about what he did in Dalenos.”

Teft nodded and Jin tensed.

Interesting. Does Jin know more about Keras? I assumed that the crystal he showed me was the only thing he found in the Divinatory, but he certainly could have found something else that he kept to himself.

Teft replied, “I saw the memory crystal. I’m not sure the children are supposed to hear about this.”

“Oh, please, Jonathan. That’s hardly a secret. It was in the newspapers.” She turned back to me. “Have you learned anything more recent, Corin?”

I shook my head. “Nothing much. I heard he was sighted heading toward the Edrian border.”

Orden frowned. “How’d you come upon that information?” “I spoke to my mother, as you suggested, but only briefly.”

The professor nodded. “Good. Have you followed up on anything more recent?”

I shook my head. “Nothing since then, unfortunately. I tried to find youagain, but you’d headed into the tower at that point.”

Orden frowned. “You can’t always expect me to answer everything for you, Corin. If you wanted information, you should have broken into the restricted archives in the Divinatory.”

“You expected me...to break in...”

She chuckled. “Whisper candidates are expected to be... resourceful. You’ve proven that way in other areas, but I suppose you’re still not much for trespassing. I’m sure we could work with that, if you end up joining us — but no matter. That’s not the issue right now. I hadn’t actually heard the report about Keras heading toward Edria. That’s something we need to investigate further. I’ll give you a key to the archives. Ask the Researcher for anything regarding Keras within the last few months.”

I nodded. “I’ll do that, but have you found any more information on your side to indicate if Keras is involved?”

“Very little pertaining to him, I’m afraid,” she admitted. “Prior to your mention of Aloras as a suspect, I was considering the possibility that he had been the one to destroy the shield generators. That’s still possible, but Aloras actually seems to fit better. I find it more likely that Keras is the one who is responsible for Tenjin’s disappearance. If he could fight one visage, it’s possible he could have harmed another one.”

No one seemed very comfortable with that statement. It was sacrilege to think a mortal could harm a visage. They were, after all, supposedly aspects of the goddess herself.

At least locally.

I knew that in Caelford, the Mortalists sect believed that the visages were actually heroes who had managed to climb all the way to the top of the towers and ascended to divinity.

Pantheonists, a prominent religion that was primarily in Edria, believed that each of the visages was a god in their own right and biological children of Selys.

While that viewpoint wasn’t popular here, I remembered Katashi’s words. He’d called Tenjin his brother. That definitely sounded more like they were independent entities that were biologically related. Of course, that also could have worked with the Mortalist view. Maybe two brothers had simply made it to the top of a tower together.

Or maybe the visages all really were bits of the same Goddess, like our own Aspectist priests preached, and Katashi was just putting things into terms that I’d understand.

I broke the silence after a few moments. “Seems possible. It’d certainly explain why Katashi wanted to fight him.”

Orden nodded. “Did Katashi mention Keras to you?” I shook my head. “Not a word on that subject.”

Moment of truth... I supposed that telling Orden the information at this point probably wasn’t going to hurt.

Probably.

I rubbed the burn on my hand. It still hurt just a bit, but not as much as a true brand from an iron would have. Well, as far as I knew. Fortunately, a branding iron had not been one of the tools used to discipline me as a child. “Katashi wanted me to bring Vera to him inside the tower. Within the next week; otherwise he’s going to send a much larger attack.”

“Ah.” Orden sighed. “That explains a few things at least.” I frowned. “Such as?”

“When the school year started, no one was able to leave the tower. I believe that was because Katashi sealed it almost immediately after his encounter with you, in order to prevent Vera and Keras from leaving the tower.”

I nodded, and she continued explaining.

“Weeks later, when the monsters were scouting the skies — that probably meant whoever he was looking for had managed to get out of the tower somehow. Either they left before Katashi sealed the exits, or perhaps they found some way around the seal. In either case, Katashi didn’t find them, but he did talk to someone who convinced him to leave. Maybe one of our chancellors, perhaps someone in the government.”

That all made sense. “I’d thought you might have been involved in getting the monsters to leave.”

Orden shook her head. “Can’t take credit for that, sadly. I did, however, learn that people were starting to exit the tower again. That’s when I went inside and spoke to the Voice. He confirmed, among other things, that neither Keras nor Vera was still in the tower. I didn’t find out how Keras managed to escape. The Voice might have known, but he doesn’t always tell me everything. It was shortly after that event that I tracked down her location.”

I scratched my chin. “Okay. So, she’s in an obvious enough spot that we can easily find her, but no one has turned her over to Katashi yet. Why?”

“Presumably because whoever spoke to Katashi the first time and gave him assurances was either incompetent or working directly with Vera.”

I balled my hands into fists. “And that inaction just cost lives.”

Professor Orden nodded. “Yes. I will investigate who spoke to Katashi the first time. If they deliberately delayed giving him information, that is a crime that must be answered for. In the meantime, if Katashi’s demand is for us to deliver Vera to him, we would be wise to do so.”

I nodded. “If we know where she is, perhaps we should go as soon as we’ve rested. I see no reason to wait a full week, especially if there are potential enemies who may act before we do.”

Orden glanced at Teft, then back to me. “I concur, but with a few minor adjustments. First, if you are planning to head into the Climber’s Gate, you must be properly prepared. Only six can enter that gate together. Jonathan, I assume you will be going?”

Teft grunted and stood up. “I wasn’t particularly effective against Mizuchi, but I can handle a few floors of the tower. Let’s hope the visage decides to meet us at the entrance, though.”

“Right. I will also be accompanying you. Unfortunately, even if she is incapacitated — which may or may not be necessary — Vera will count as one of our six. That means that you children will need to decide who else among you is going to be entering the tower with Corin, if anyone.”

She paused, biting her lower lip before continuing. “Under normal circumstances, I would advise that Corin be escorted by a full group of professors or military officials...but given the likelihood of corruption in our ranks, I would advise we keep this entire plan to ourselves. I will inform some of the other Whispers of the situation so that they can spread this discretely in case of our failure.”

Teft flexed a hand in the air. “We should at least tell Jack.”

Professor Orden sighed. “Fine, fine. I agree that it’s unlikely the vice chancellor would be working against our country. He’s nothing if not a patriot. But do advise him to be cautious. In fact, perhaps we should just bring him here for the discussion after the children leave?”

Teft scratched his chin. “That would be a good idea.”

“All right.” Professor Orden turned back to me. “Given how dangerous this could be, I’d advise you to buy and pack anything you might need for the tower tonight. Tomorrow, check the archives to research Keras and Vera. Perhaps you’ll find something new. I’ll scout Vera’s location while you do that, and then meet you at the Divinatory at eleven bells. We’ll confront her together and hopefully bring her to the tower directly afterward.”

I nodded. “That should give us plenty of time to get this done before Katashi’s deadline.”

“Agreed. If there are no further questions, I’ll bring you all back to the school - and you can head back to your rooms. Do not discuss anything related to Vera, Keras, or Katashi unless you are in a secure area. You should, however, decide who wishes to go to the tower. Just keep the conversation vague. Understood?”

We all nodded. If we hadn’t been through so much, we probably wouldhave had far more questions. As it was, everyone just looked exhausted.

With another teleport spell, we found ourselves back in the middle of campus.

We headed straight for the dining hall.

Fighting and thinking, it seemed, were both hungry work.

***“I’m going with you.” Sera opened with it almost as soon as the teleport had finished.

“Okay?” I replied uncertainly.

“I would also like to accompany you.” Jin this time. A little surprising, given his reluctance before.

Patrick nudged me next. “I’m in, too, if you need me.”

Marissa had an oddly introspective expression. “I’ll go as well, of course, if you’ll have me.”

I turned to Jin. “Might be unwise for you to come with me, given how badly you were hurt.”

He slipped the ring of regeneration off his finger, handing it back to me. “As I mentioned before, my patron’s healing was quite effective. I no longer feel any pain from my injuries.”

I accepted the ring, slipping it on and activating it immediately. I already felt much better than earlier, but using it more couldn’t hurt.

Probably.

I wasn’t actually sure what happened if you had a regeneration item on and you were already fully healed.

Oh well. If I have three arms in the morning, I’ll know this was a bad idea.

I glanced between my three candidates. I was pretty sure Sera would murder me if I didn’t bring her along. She was already pretty frustrated that I’d been leaving her out so much, and I couldn’t blame her.

Perhaps even more importantly, I didn’t think anyone in our group could match her combat ability. Maybe Marissa, now that she’d hit Carnelian, but I doubted it. Sera’s summoned monsters made her vastly more dangerous than a standard attuned of the same level.

So, if things got messy? Sera was the best option I had.

That meant choosing between Patrick, Marissa, Jin. And that was rough decision to make.

Patrick was my retainer. I wasn’t very good with people, but even I understood that failing to bring him with me on a dangerous mission would potentially alienate him forever. So, uh, that was bad.

Marissa was Carnelian now, which meant she was clearly more powerfulthan the rest of us. That almost made the decision for me... but she looked exhausted. Sick, even. I remembered her tripping when we were heading back from the fight - had she overused her mana that significantly?Jin seemed to be looking for a chance to redeem himself in our eyes for getting injured earlier. More importantly, he probably had something to prove to his patron visage. This would give him an opportunity to do something to garner his visage’s favor, as well as repay the visage for healing him earlier. It was a big opportunity for him.

“I’m bringing Sera. She’s family, and her summoned monsters give us more flexibility.” I saw a series of nods from the others; no one seemed to dispute that call.

I turned to Marissa next and handed her the mana watch. “Marissa, can you check what your mana looks like right now?”

She accepted the watch. She’d seen me use it dozens of times and knew how it worked. She turned, awkwardly slipped it into her shirt, then pulled it back out.

The number read “0/172”.

I blinked at the reading. Not only was her mana capacity vastly higher than my own, it was even higher than I’d expected for a Carnelian.

But her current mana was zero. That was strange. Even if she’d overused her mana, she should have recovered some of it by now. “Have you been feeling sick, Marissa?”

She nodded. “Just a bit, pay it no mind.”

Sera turned to Marissa. “I think it’s more than that. Katashi probably gave you an infusion of his mana when he enhanced your attunement. I don’t think your body has acclimated to it yet. Every time I make a contract with a new monster I experience something similar, just on a smaller scale. It looks like he gave you a lot of mana.”

That explanation made sense. It was similar to the reason why Enchanters and Shapers couldn’t safely transfer mana from one person into another.

Marissa looked downcast. “What do I do?”

Sera waved a hand dismissively. “Oh, you’ll be fine. You probably just need to rest for a few days. I think you should sit this one out, though.”

I frowned at that. Marissa was our best option in terms of raw fighting ability. Still, if Sera was right and Marissa was going to be sick for a while...

Marissa looked at me.

Resh. I really didn’t want to make the decision.

“It’s okay, Marissa. You saved me back there and defended Jin, too. You should be proud of that. Take the time to rest, you’ve earned it.”

She gave me a nod. “If you’re certain.”

That left the even harder part.

“Jin, Patrick. I want to bring both of you with me, but I can’t. I also can’t choose between you. Patrick, I know you’re my retainer, and that should take priority in most cases. Jin, however, just got healed by his patron visage and has a good chance to earn that visage’s favor here. This isn’t just about me.”

Patrick nodded to that. “Yeah, I get it. But someone has to make a call.” They flipped a coin. Jin won the toss.

Patrick sighed. “You just take care of each other in there. I wouldn’t forgive myself if you’re hurt.”

I nodded. “We will. I promise.”

Promises are so much easier to make than they are to keep.

