CHAPTER XVI — TESTING PHASE TWO

Professor Meltlake floated, rather than stood, in front of the class when I arrived and took my seat. She was only about four feet above the ground, but it was both noticeable and impressive. She sat on the air like a cushion with no clear gestures or words to maintain the spell.

Given what I recalled of Meltlake’s previous lectures, I suspected the effortless manipulation of mana was a calculated move on her part. While Teft preferred direct confrontations for shock and awe, Meltlake liked to draw us in with little casual uses of magic that brought out our curiosity.

At an otherwise unremarkable moment — one I suspected to be the precise moment an unseen clock ticked to the starting time of our class — Meltlake lifted her head and glanced around the classroom, her lips twisting almost imperceptibly downward.

That muted displeasure was an uncomfortable pressure for me, even though I suspected it was directed at those students who were still sitting down. Or worse, those few that remained absent.

“Students, attention.”

We turned our gaze toward her, conversations silencing in an instant. If we had a military salute, we probably would have given one, but we weren’t quite at that point in our training yet.

If I handled things right, I’d never get to that point. I had no intention of joining the military. Not for traditional service, at least. I couldn’t afford to. I knew it was extremely unlikely that I’d make it to the top of the tower before graduating. Most stories of successful climbers indicated that they took decades to reach the top — and success stories were rare.

I needed to make sure I scored high enough to qualify for becoming a military-sponsored climber when I graduated.

Even if I did rescue Tristan before graduating, I still had no interest in joining the military. Military service had destroyed my great grandfather’s mind. The military had taught my father to “discipline” me into success. I didn’t want to end up like either of them.

“Today, we’ll be discussing Valia’s relationships with the most prominentkingdoms on Kaldyn. We’ll discuss the smaller kingdoms, as well as kingdoms on other continents, in future classes. We’ll begin with our geographic neighbors. Dalenos in the north and Edria to our south.”

The mention of Dalenos made me think about Jin. There were a considerable number of foreign students here, but I’d only seen a handful of others from Dalenos. They were notoriously insular. Not necessarily xenophobic — they didn’t seem to have any problems trading with Valia or with our own students visiting them — but my impression was that they were very patriotic and that most of their citizens weren’t very interested in learning about our culture.

Professor Meltlake turned one hand upward and opened her palm. “If this is Valia...,” a white cloud, roughly triangular in shape, but with deep gaps that presumably represented bodies of water, “Then this would be Dalenos.”

She opened her right hand, and a blue cloud manifested. This one was more rectangular in shape. It formed along the north western angle of Valia’s triangular shape, stretching both further west and north. The rectangle had a large chunk missing from the center, and another on the southern side. The first one represented a big lake with a name I could never remember, and the second presumably signified the Unclaimed Lands — territory infested with vicious beasts that had never been fully settled.

“Dalenos is unique among our nations in that they are directly led and guided by one of the visages — Katashi, the Visage of Justice. While we use the term “kingdom” for simplicity, they are not a kingdom in the traditional sense; their monarch is largely a figurehead. Katashi, and by extension his priesthood, control all legal and military forces in the region. Thus, it is more accurately referred to as a theocracy.”

A student I didn’t recognize stood up to indicate she had a question.

Professor Meltlake turned her head. “Yes, Constance?”

“Aren’t we all theocracies, then? I mean, don’t we all follow the same Goddess?” Constance asked, sitting back down.

Professor Meltlake shook her head. “While all nations on the continent do revere Selys, praise be to her name, most of our governments draft their own laws without direct guidance from the visages. Each of the largest nations — often colloquially referred to as the ‘Four Powers’ — do have some form of guidance from a patron visage. This generally comes in the form of occasional advice to the rulers or council. In Dalenos, Katashi and his priesthood directly control the rule of law. If there is a significant dispute, the priesthood can escalate the question to Katashi directly. He spends much of his time living directly among the people of the city in his grand cathedral.”

Another student stood up. “Does that mean that Dalenos is moreimportant than the rest of our nations?”

Meltlake actually laughed. That was a rarity. “They’d certainly like us to think so. Historically, however, it’s more complicated than that. Five nations, including our own, used to have a visage that lived among them and helped govern in some capacity. While Dalenos would claim that their visage’s presence means that they’re the only ones who still deserve the honor, the rest of our governments tend to think we’ve just outgrown needing divine oversight. As for who is right?”

The professor shrugged. “That’s a question for the visages, not for me.” The student sat down, a thoughtful expression on his face.

All I could think about was how glad I was that we didn’t have a visage watching over us all the time. One encounter with Katashi had been more than enough for my tastes.

Meltlake glanced around, presumably checking for more questions, and then continued after a few seconds. “Dalenos is the home to the Tortoise Spire. Of the six Shifting Spires, the Tortoise Spire is the least explored; mostly due to how difficult it is to earn the right to explore the tower for non- citizens. While all other nations allow travelers to explore their Shifting Spires for a modest fee, visiting the Tortoise Spire requires an application and interview process. This process can often take months, or even years. Thus any visit to the Tortoise Spire must be planned far in advance.”

“Next,” she waved her right hand, manifesting an expansive red cloud that stretched beneath both of the two existing ones, and even further out to the west, “Edria. Or, more formally, ‘West Edria’ and ‘East Edria’, though the distinction is falling apart these days. Edria is the single most powerful military force on the continent.”

She squeezed her hand, illuminating a flickering boundary between the two portions of Edria. “During the Six Years War, Edria invaded our bordering kingdom of Kelridge. At the time, Kelridge was a part of Dalenos. Dalenos’ queen was a Keldridge native. She remained in the nation during the invasion, refusing to surrender even when Edrian troops had surrounded her fortress. Along with her loyal retainers, she endured a full year of grueling siege, hoping that her allies from Valia or Caelford would push back the Edrian troops — but we never succeeded in dislodging them. They called her the Unbroken Queen.”

Meltlake shook her head. “Perhaps she would have withstood the siege even longer, but her people were starving. She was assassinated — and most believe it was by one of her own people. With her fall, Kelridge officially surrendered and became East Edria. Those who remained loyal to the Unbroken Queen maintained the house’s surname, Dalen, as a way ofhonoring her. Of course, the royal family of Dalenos still uses the same name as well.”

The professor pointed her hand again, causing the western border of Valia to glow. “With Kelridge conquered, Edria pushed further east, all the way to the Valian border, before finally ceasing their assault.”

I knew that story all too well — my great grandfather, Alaric Cadence, had defeated one of the invading army’s officers in single combat to end the war. I was sure that duel was more of a formality — they would not have ever agreed to the duel if they hadn’t wanted an excuse to stop the military push.

Edrian forces had been encamped in the bordering mountain range for months without being able to successfully push into Valian territory, and with winter rapidly approaching, the duel was a way to end the conflict in a way that saved face for both sides.

While some took this as a sign of Valia’s impregnable defenses, most of my family believed that Edria was simply biding their time for a better opportunity to strike.

After all, they’d already obtained what they truly wanted in the push.

The professor explained that next. “During the conquest of Kelridge, Edria became the first nation to control two of the Shifting Spires. Edria was built near the Hydra Spire, home of Orochi the God Hydra, and historically that had been their primary source of attunements. Kelridge was the home to the Phoenix Spire, the seat of Suzaku, the God Phoenix.”

Another student stood up — Lei, one of the few students I knew was from East Edria. “Professor, not to be disrespectful, but we do not refer to Suzaku as a phoenix — nor would we call Orochi a hydra, or even a god among them. They are distinct creatures.”

Meltlake nodded. “Ah, I was wondering if someone would bring that up. In Valia, Miss Zhang, we refer to each of the god beasts by their closest analogue among common monsters. It is merely a categorization tool, useful for our citizens to easily visualize and remember each of the towers. I understand that in East Edria, Suzaku remains a deep part of your culture, and that conflating it with an ordinary type of monster may come across as disrespectful. Please understand that no disrespect is intended — and we do teach more detailed information about each of the god beasts and their histories during the second year.”

Lei frowned, but she simply said, “Thank you, professor,” and sat back down. It was obvious she wanted to say more, but I think she was smart to leave the issue alone — I sincerely doubted that any further argument would accomplish anything.

I probably would have been more sympathetic if I thought of the godbeasts as anything other than horrifying monsters of city-shattering power. I knew that East Edria thought of Suzaku as a positive force, more like how we treated the visages, but I’d never been raised to think of the god beasts that way. It was difficult to imagine a powerful monster being anything other than terrifying.

“Now,” Professor Meltlake continued, “Some of you have asked me why we still allow people from Edria to visit, in spite of the movements of Edrian troops along the border. The answer is that we are — most definitively — not at war. Troop movements are commonplace for both of our countries, and we have been at peace with Edria for decades. While we must remain vigilant, Edria has shown no sign of overt aggression.”

I heard some murmurs of disagreement among the class, but Meltlake didn’t stop talking. “I know that many of you are concerned, but our soldiers are well-trained, and we are quite prepared for any potential attack. Perhaps more importantly, Edria is still allowing our own citizens to visit them freely, including making the treks to both of their towers. Most military experts believe that Edria would cut off our access to their towers and expel our citizens before attempting any military action — initiating a war while we had capable attuned deep inside Edrian territory would be an extremely dangerous move.”

A few nods of agreement at that, but I wasn’t one of them. How many attuned could we possibly have visiting their towers? A couple dozen, maybe, if that? I was confident that twenty or thirty attuned loose in a warring nation would be a frustration, but I sincerely doubted they would be a sufficient threat to deter a war.

Professor Meltlake was probably just trying to keep the class from worrying — and I understood that, but I didn’t necessarily agree with it. Then again, I had a tendency to overthink things. Not everyone appreciated obsessively theorizing the same way that I did.

“Now,” Professor Meltlake twisted her left hand, manifesting a silvery cloud on the far western side of her map. “Caelford is the last of the Four Powers. They are an industrious nation, famous for their mechanical engineering and scientific experimentation. We consider them our closest allies, both due to their assistance in the Six Years War and our many centuries of trade prior to that.”

She closed her hands, causing both Valia and Caelford’s clouds to glow a brighter. “Perhaps even more importantly, they border Edria on the western side of the continent, where we border Edria on the east — if either of our nations should fall, the other would be at substantial risk of being attacked next.”

Grinning, Professor Meltlake continued. “Caelford is the home to the Tiger Spire, where Byakko, the God Tiger, resides. It’s also the home of Ferras, the most active of the visages aside from Katashi. Ferras doesn’t run the government — instead, she works directly with her citizens on science and engineering projects that interest her. She’s also notoriously informal — she travels without a retinue and dresses in ordinary clothes, which has led to a few rather embarrassing mistakes over the years.”

I pictured someone trying to kick a drunken visage out of a bar — that sounded hilarious.

That’s one visage I might actually be interested in meeting. Maybe I could get her to teach me more about how attunements actually work.

Professor Meltlake lifted a finger and drew a line across the map from Caelford to Valia. “While we’ve always had robust trade with Caelford, and the cross continental railroad that has made shipping goods far easier than at any previous point in history. For this reason, the railroad is extremely well- maintained — and well-defended. We have military bases at several locations along the rail, including two small bases in the Unclaimed Lands. It is very possible that after your attunement training is completed, you could be assigned to protect one of these key locations.”

“Now, that’s it for the Four Powers...”

Another student stood up. Professor Meltlake raised an eyebrow. “Yes?” The student folded his arms. “You mentioned five of the Shifting Spires— aren’t there six?”

Professor Meltlake nodded. “Yes. The location of the Spider Spire, however, is a closely-guarded secret. Most of your fellow students will guess that it lies in the Unclaimed Lands, but I’ll say this — that’s not the case. There is a tower in the Unclaimed Lands, but not one of the six.”

Now that got my attention. I knew that the Spider Spire’s location was a secret. I’d even spent some time unsuccessfully trying to figure it when I was younger. I was curious about that, but I was even more interested in this other tower.

Could there be a seventh spire? If so, would it be possible to get different attunements there?I was just about to stand up to ask a follow-up question... “And that’s all the time we have for today. Class dismissed!” Oh, cruel temptation. She wanted us to wonder.

I sighed.

“Mysterious towers” was one more thing I’d need to fit into my research schedule. If this secret tower was connected to the six Shifting Spires, maybe it could help illuminate some additional secrets about how the towers trulyworked.

***Late one night, I heard a knock at my door. This was not all that unusual in itself, but I was still a little bit worried about potential assassins. I brought my sword with me as I approached the door. “Coming!”

I opened the door a few moments later. Jin was standing outside. He was standing with his back straight, wearing an intensely serious expression. “Corin.”

I waved at him. “Oh, hey, Jin. Don’t have any more items ready for you just yet, sorry.”

He shook his head. “I am not here for that.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Oh? What can I help you with?”

He raised a gloved hand to his chin. “It has been brought to my attention that there is a formal social event coming up in the winter. It is customary for students to attend with a date.”

I winced. The last time someone had asked me to help them find a date to the ball hadn’t exactly ended well. “You want me to ask someone for you?”

Jin tilted his head downward and laughed nervously. “No, Corin. I want you to come with me to the ball.”

Oh.

Oh!I blinked. “Uh, I mean, as a friend? Or as a date?” “As a date, unless you have an objection.” “I...uh...”

“Breathe, Corin. You can think about it.”

Thinking. Right.

I did some of that breathing thing. I didn’t know what to say.

Jin had stood out from the first moment I’d seen him. He was strange; he seemed smart. Our interactions always left me grinning. Was I attracted to him?I mean, he had a pleasing aesthetic. Athletic body and all. I liked the shape of his chin?But that just meant I liked looking at him. I still didn’t — what if he wanted to... It honestly never occurred to me that this might be an issue. I had no interest in asking anyone out, and the thought of someone taking an interest in me hadn’t crossed my mind.

Now that he’d asked, though... Could I date someone? My face was reddening.

I closed my eyes for a moment, flexing my hands in the air and taking adeep breath. “Okay. Breathing now. I think I’m interested? I’ve never really done anything like this before. And, uh, just so you know, I’m not that into...touching?”

He nodded. “I’ve noticed. It won’t be a problem. We can dance if you decide you want to. If not, I would be more than happy just to have you there to talk with me.”

I laughed, just a hair too loud to be natural. Dancing. Is that all? I think I can handle dancing.

Maybe.

Maybe just talking. Talking is fine. “Okay, let’s go with that, then. It’s a date.”

“I look forward to it.” The slightest smile crossed his lips. “Good night.” I nodded hastily. “Okay. Great. Good night.”

Jin closed the door.

I stared at it for another few moments before retreating to my bed, heart pounding in my chest.

What have I done?I don’t know how to date!In spite of my panic, a spark of excitement had been lit. As the minutes passed and my anxiety faded, I once more found myself grinning after our conversation.

I had a date!***Twenty weeks into the semester. It was time for our second major exam, and I didn’t feel anywhere close to ready.

We assembled for a strategy session the day before the test. Fortunately, we were using Marissa’s room this time, on account of it being much larger than mine. She was still in the Tortoise’s Heart, indicating she was getting excellent grades, but the rest of us were still stuck in the normal ones.

Except for Jin, maybe. I wasn’t actually sure if he was still in the room above me — I rarely visited him directly. He’d usually found me.

Even with the extra room, it was pretty cramped with five of us, but I was glad to see everyone.

Especially since I had presents.

I passed out the sigils first, since I had one for everyone. They were a simple enough design — a few runes etched into the back of a copper phoenix, about the same size as our usual existing shield sigils.

“What’s this?” Patrick accepted his phoenix sigil, fiddling with the pin on the back. “Should I put it on?”

“Wouldn’t hurt anything.” I handed out the last one, which Jin eyeddubiously. “They’re self-recharging shield sigils. Higher capacity than the class-issued ones, and if they’re drained, they’ll refill completely in about an hour. You can still recharge them manually, but you won’t need to unless it’s an emergency.”

Marissa blinked. “Wouldn’t something like that be super expensive?”

I grinned. “If you had to buy them, sure. Fortunately, aside from the metal, I made everything I needed myself. They’re not much more complicated than a standard shield sigil — just a few extra runes to make them recharge automatically.”

Jin scratched at his chin, turning the phoenix over in his hands. “Useful. I wasn’t aware you had reached the point of making Carnelian-level items en masse.”

I chuckled. “Don’t worry, I haven’t forgotten your list. In fact, I managed to get to one of your higher priority ones that I couldn’t make before.” I dug through the pouch on my side, withdrawing a monocle on a chain.

This one had been the toughest project yet — in part because of the amount of mental mana it required, and in part because I had to borrow a Shadow to test if it worked. Took three attempts to get everything working right, but it’d been worth it.

I handed it to him gingerly — I wasn’t going to risk tossing something so easily breakable.

In retrospect, maybe I should have thrown a resilience enhancement on it, too.

Jin lifted the monocle over an eye, frowned, and looked at his right arm. Which promptly vanished.

I blinked, and I heard a few gasps from the others. We’d seen plenty of magic before, but Jin rarely showed off his capabilities in public.

Is he showing us a bit more trust, or is he just doing this as another step in obfuscating his real attunement?I could ask him about it, but that might get him to retreat back into keeping everything to himself. If he’s a Spider, he probably can’t tell us anything more than he already has without losing points.

His arm reappeared a moment later. “Acceptable,” he pronounced. From the tiny curve of his mouth, though, I could see that I’d pleased him.

Patrick nudged me. “You going to share what that was with the rest of the class?”

“True Seeing,” Jin explained. “It sees through illusions and deceptions.” “Mm.” I raised a finger. “Not quite True Seeing, unfortunately. That’s ahigher level version of the same effect. But it generally functions the way you described — it just won’t work on extremely high level illusions.”

Jin gave a curt nod. “Of course. Thank you.”

“You got it.” I turned to Marissa next. “Your turn, Mara.”

She blinked. “You actually got me something? I, uh, there’s no way I can repay you for any of this...”

I laughed, startling her. “You’re a part of the team, Marissa. This is my contribution.” I looked around to the rest of the group. “Something we all need to be clear about — I’m not going to be able to pull the same kind of weight within the tests as the rest of you. Preparation is my strength. Sure, I’ll contribute ideas and muscle once we’re in there, but as you all get better with your attunements, the gulf in our abilities is only going to grow.”

I folded my hands together. “Best thing you can do to thank me? Use these. Both within the tests and outside them. And if they don’t work the way you want them to? Let me know. I can make adjustments, or hand the item to someone else and make you something different.”

I took out a plain copper bracelet and passed it over to Marissa. “If it makes you feel any better, this was the simplest item of the bunch. One of my favorites, though.”

She accepted the bracelet, turning it over in her hands. “What’s it do?”

“If it detects you sending mana through your arm, it sends more. It’s a standard design for Guardians, nothing fancy. Won’t interfere with your abilities — it just makes them stronger.”

Marissa snapped the bracelet on, grinning. “Means a lot that you ‘membered what I wanted. Can’t wait to hit something and see how these work.”

“Figured you would like them.” More digging through my bag before I produced a leather glove. “Ah, Sera. Yours.” I tossed it to her.

She caught it with narrowed eyes. “This is a House Cadence symbol.” “Oh, uh, yeah. I kind of had that made for you.” I winked at her.

She took a deep breath. “I...don’t think I’m—”

“I never gave you a proper gift to welcome you into the family. But you’re family, and it’s about time I started treating you that way.”

She slipped off the blank glove she’d been wearing, trying the new one on. “It’s...a little big.”

I chuckled. “I didn’t know your exact size, so I had to guess. You’ll grow into it.”

“I’m seventeen, Corin. I don’t think my hands are growing that much more.”

I waved a hand dismissively. “We can get it tailored. That’s not the enchanted part.”

More digging through the bag, until I produced a metal bracer, which Ipassed to Sera. “I was going to make you a demi-gauntlet like mine, until I realized that would cover the house symbol. You should be able to strap this over the glove without a problem.”

“This what we talked about before?” She inspected the runes on the surface, then started strapping it on over the glove.

“Yup. See the bottom rune? The one that looks kind of like a guy with horns?”

“That looks nothing like a guy with horns, Corin.” “Okay, but you see what I mean. I’m not an artist.” “Thank the goddess for that small kindness.”

I raised three fingers in a rude gesture. “Anyway, if you want to use the bracer, touch that with your other hand and channel just a little bit of mana into it. Like what you’d do with a dueling cane. That primes it, and it’ll use the full mana reserve next time you try to summon something.”

She nodded. “How much did you manage to store in there?” “One hundred and twenty mana.”

Sera blinked rapidly. “I didn’t think you even had that much.”

I lifted my necklace, showing off the “46/46” displayed on it. I’d gotten much stronger over the last three weeks of rapidly making items, but still nowhere near the mana held in that device. “I don’t. I cheated — there are four separate storage runes in there, each with 30 mana in them.”

“That’s still more than I thought you could do in one session.”

I tapped the necklace to my right hand, changing the display to “58/58”. “I couldn’t charge that much if it was mental mana, but the mana stored in those is gray. I charged them from my hand.”

Jin gave me a quizzical look. “Why do you have more mana in your hand than your attunement?”

Oh, right, I hadn’t told everyone about that.

“Paralyzing fear. Nothing for you to worry about.” I tapped the necklace to my forehead again, setting it back to monitor my mind. I got nervous any time it wasn’t actively doing that.

Jin raised a hand to his lips, looking like he wanted to say something more, but he remained silent.

Then Sera hugged me. “Thanks, Corin.”

Humancontacttoomuch.

I patted her awkwardly on the back, suppressing a shudder. It’s just Sera, I told myself. Hugging Sera is fine. She’s safe. You’re safe.

Comforting her when she was injured had been easier because I had initiated it myself. I still wasn’t good at handling other people touching me. It was easier with Sera than anyone else, but she’d surprised me. I probablywould have panicked less if I had a chance to brace myself. “Uh, you’re welcome. Thanks. Hope you like it.”

She released me a moment later, to my great relief. Patrick looked at me expectantly.

I strongly considered pretending I didn’t get him anything, but it was too much effort. “And, of course, I saved the best for last.”

I tossed Patrick the ring, a House Cadence symbol on it.

Signet rings weren’t common in Valia. Gloves usually served the purpose of marking a noble house here. Rings were more common up in Dalenos, where they tended to be more traditional.

If we’d been down in Edria, I’m pretty sure my gesture would have been considered a proposal for marriage.

Heh.

Anyway, the ring itself wasn’t a big deal like giving him a glove would be, but it was still a symbol of the house, which made it a good gift.

And, it was metal set with a gem, which made it great for enchanting. “Nice!” He slipped it on his pointer finger immediately. Fortunately, itlooked like a good fit. I’d assumed correctly that he’d wear a ring about the same size as I did. “What’s it do?”

“It’s similar to what I made Sera and Marissa. It enhances your spells, but more like Marissa’s. It puts a bit of extra mana into every spell, rather than using it all at once like Sera’s. Also, it only works for lightning. Apparently, gray mana works for enhancing lightning, but it wouldn’t help other elemental spells.”

Patrick grinned wide. “Lightning’s the best, anyway.”

“Excellent. So, now that I’m bankrupt, let’s get to the actual planning session.”

***We spent the next couple hours talking strategy and going over everyone’s new capabilities. We’d all been talking pretty frequently over the last ten weeks, so nothing was particularly surprising.

Sera still had access to the creatures she’d bound during the Survival Match, but she didn’t have enough mana to summon the wyvern. That was fine, as far as I was concerned. The ogre and karvensi were more than good enough. The karvensi had been considerably weaker than the wyvern in terms of raw power, but its intelligence and flexibility had made it just as effective, if not more so.

Patrick had been training with Meltlake constantly, but he’d shown a stronger affinity for lightning than her traditional fire spells. Fortunately, Meltlake was still capable of teaching those, and he’d picked up a couplenoteworthy spells — a lightning storm that would periodically rain bolts on enemies, a weapon electrification spell, and a chain lightning spell that would jump between enemy targets.

Marissa had spent the vast majority of her time developing her shroud. When I briefly turned my attunement on, I was shocked by the intensity of it. Her shroud was already vastly stronger than the phoenix sigils I’d made us, and she seemed to be maintaining it without any effort. I wondered just how much damage it could deflect and what else she could do with it.

Jin assured us he’d gotten better at “everything” and left it at that.

It was the end of the night when I showed them what I’d made for myselfa saber with gray and transference enchantments layered across the surface to increase the striking power. It was a poor substitute for the Selys-Lyann, but at least I had a weapon I was allowed to use. I’d considered a dueling cane, but I didn’t need one. A saber was a better close-range weapon and I had the gauntlet to handle ranged attacks.

I wished I’d had more time to make some items focused on utility — detecting traps, increased mobility, teleportation, unlocking boxes and doorsbut I’d pushed myself to the brink of exhaustion just trying to get these last few items ready in time.

That had also prevented me from making any items that were specifically intended for the test rooms we’d already seen. My priority was making sure the items that I made would be flexible enough to work in multiple tests, as well as the actual Serpent Spire.

Fortunately, now that I was capable of churning out roughly two or three magical items per week, I was confident I’d be much better prepared for our third test.

Assuming we didn’t fail out of the school during this one, of course.

And, with that rather sobering thought in mind, I made my way back to my room to sleep.

***We didn’t have a second-year student to prep us for the test this time. We had Professor Orden.

She was wearing a tailored black suit as usual, but she had her hair up in a bun today. Some sort of special occasion, maybe? She usually kept it down.

“Ah, some of my favorite students. Make sure to entertain me.” The group exchanged worried glances.

The preparation room was the same. I glanced at the three exit doors with my attunement on. Two of them glowed with purple auras. Presumably the effect that would teleport us into the testing area.

“Same rules as last time,” Orden explained, leaning on a long duelingcane. “Any questions?”

Sera shook her head. “No, professor. I believe we’re clear.” “Great. Who’s sitting out with me?”

We’d agreed on our plan the night before, but I still felt a little nervous. Marissa spoke. “I’m starting outside.”

Orden raised an eyebrow. “Really? You’re leaving your Guardian behind?” The teacher shook her head incredulously. “Well, whatever. Your funeral. Head to your doors, kids.”

I nodded, heading to the same door I’d taken last time. Patrick was with me — he’d be our muscle. Jin and Sera headed for the other door.

“Good luck,” Sera offered to us. “Same,” I replied.

Professor Orden walked over to each group and handed a member of each team a return bell. “Don’t forget these.”

We accepted our return bells. I tucked mine away in my bag, turning toward the entrance door.

“Aaaaand...begin!”

I turned the door handle, swung the door wide——and appeared on a pedestal in the midst of a chamber filled with water.

Oh, resh.

We’re in the wrong room.

***We’d talked about several different ways the test could go the previous night.

The test could have been identical to last time — same rooms, same configuration, same tricks.

We considered the possibility of a completely different test, too.

Or that the tests might outwardly look the same, but have subtle changes to trip us up.

We’d spent hours discussing ways to prepare for those more complex scenarios.

We’d never planned for the very simple idea of them swapping the entrance doors.

If we’d pre-planned for this scenario, it’d be trivial to just use the bells to switch rooms. But we don’t have any way to coordinate that now.

I really should have made an item to send messages.

I took a deep breath, scanning the room. It was bigger than the other chamber — but not by much. I could see several pedestals that were within jumping range, just as the others had described.

I could see the swirling of something moving within the water, too.

As much as the disruption was terrifying, the consistency with what the others had described to us was a comfort.

We hadn’t explicitly prepared for this, but we had shared information. We knew what we were up against, and we could probably handle it. But we did have a better solution.

I took the bell out of the bag. “Swapping for Mara. She’s been in here before.”

Patrick nodded. “Sorry if you’re bored out there.” I shook my head. “No problem. Don’t get killed.” I rang the return bell.

***Sitting in the waiting room wasn’t exactly an epic adventure, but I felt like we’d taken the smart route, even if I didn’t get to contribute as much personally. Sometimes the success of the team was more important than my personal excitement.

Professor Orden was sitting in the waiting room. She raised an eyebrow at me as I appeared. “That was quick. Losing your nerve, Cadence?”

“Nothing like that. I wasn’t expecting you to switch the room configuration on us. Mara will be better at handling that room, since she’s been there before.”

Orden made a ‘hmm’ noise. “Perhaps.”

We sat in relative silence for the next few minutes. I was very tempted to ask what was happening with the Voice of the Tower, but this didn’t seem like the right place or time.

I was a little surprised when Jin appeared in the room, not far from where I’d teleported in.

What would have happened if we’d rung our bells one after another?Could people be teleported inside each other?I shook my head, dismissing the disturbing thought.

Jin folded his arms at me. “Marissa was supposed to be in here.” “We already swapped.”

“Hmpf. I was hoping to get Sera some real muscle. But I suppose you’ll have to do.”

I rolled my eyes at his teasing. “Your confidence in my abilities is overwhelming.” I stood up and headed to the exit door. “What should I know?”

“We handled the shadow monster.” Jin lifted up the monocle I made him. “Works.”

I blinked. I hadn’t expected invisibility detection to work on that shadow creature. Considering it could pass through walls, I figured it was some sort ofplane shifting effect.

Not that I was complaining. I wanted to ask for more details, but Sera was waiting. “Anything else?”

“We opened the other door this time as planned. Might be even worse than the fire room — and it ate the key.”

Oh, perfect.

We’d been hoping that other room would be easier to handle than the fire statues. Apparently, we’d gambled poorly. “Details?”

“No imminent danger. Sera will show you what we’ve found.” I nodded, waving to Jin and exiting the room.

I drew my sword before heading into Sera’s entrance. It never hurt to be prepared.

***I felt my stomach lurch as I appeared in a familiar chamber.

The setup was similar to what I remembered — lit torches on the walls, a sealed container sitting in one corner, and a huge fountain in the center. The key had already been removed from the fountain.

There were only a couple differences from when I’d last left the room. One was the room that they’d chosen to open with the key, as Jin had already mentioned.

The second was Sera’s presence in the room — I hadn’t had her with me last time I’d gone in here. In fact, I’d never worked with her in any major test— we’d done some minor team activities in Teft’s class, but nothing of any significance.

She shot me a raised eyebrow when I appeared.

I shrugged in reply. “We already stole Marissa. I hope you’re not too disappointed. I could get a wig, maybe talk with a country accent?”

Sera sighed. “You barely pass for Corin Cadence, let alone anyone else.” “Ouch.” I raised my free hand over my heart. “I’ll have you know that Ialmost considered participating in a play once. I’m practically a professional.” “Clearly. In the meantime, let’s focus that professionalism on actuallyfinishing this?”

I bowed at the waist. “Your wish is my command.”

She jerked a thumb toward the open door. “Get a glance at that.”

I walked over to the now-open door to an adjacent chamber. A long, red carpet trailed across the center of the thin room. My eyes narrowed at the style. It brought back unwelcome memories of the tower room where Katashi had appeared.

The carpet served as a trail, leading directly to a throne woven from vines. The throne was far too big for a human. It looked like it was designed toaccommodate something on the scale of an ogre, but no creature sat atop it. Instead, a golden crown glittered in the center.

The path to the throne was maybe sixty feet — much longer than the distance across our current room. The room was thinner, however, maybe fifteen feet in width.

The sides of the room — basically the whole area off of the red-carpeted path — were enshrouded in vines covered in thorns the size of my fist. I ground my jaw just looking at them. They weren’t moving, but I could imagine them writhing around like snakes.

The danger seemed pretty straightforward. Something in that room would trigger the vines to attack.

Narrowing my eyes, I thought I could see a couple more glimmering objects within the vines somewhere. Possibly secondary objectives, or maybe the true objective, if the crown was a decoy.

Is there a key anywhere?I didn’t see one, but maybe it was in that tangle of vines somewhere.

Interestingly, I didn’t see any doors within the chamber. Maybe there was one hidden behind the vines? Or maybe this direction just didn’t go any further and our objective was to obtain something inside.

I turned my head back to Sera. “Seems likely the vines are designed to attack.”

Sera chuckled. “Obviously. Anything more creative to contribute?”

I shrugged, turning back toward the room. Nervously, I glanced at my necklace. I hadn’t used any mana yet, but I had an obsessive need to check. 46/46. I was fine.

I turned on my attunement, just for a moment.

Everything glowed.

I’d almost forgotten that virtually this whole place was some kind of magical construct or illusion. After a blinding moment, I shook my head and focused, filtering out the ambient glow to focus on the things with significance.

The crown glowed brighter — and so did a spot on the rear wall, to the left side of the throne. A false wall, maybe?The floor directly in front of the throne was also glowing. A trap, perhaps, or a passage into another room.

I spotted three glowing objects within the vines. All the way in the back right corner, a huge greatsword was propped up against the wall. It was about as far from the entrance as it was possible to get.

Toward the middle of the room on the left side, something small was glowing on the floor. A key, if I had to guess.

Another glowing object was just inside the door, sitting on the floor just inside a layer of vines. I couldn’t quite make it out, but it was roughly dagger sized.

I turned off my attunement, turned back to Sera, and relayed my findings. I checked my mana again. 45/46.

I need to stop being so obsessive about checking my mental mana. I’m not in any danger using it a few minutes here or there.

I told myself that routinely, but it didn’t help.

Sera raised a hand to brush a stray hair out of her vision. “Okay, that’s actually pretty good to know, because we’re going to have to make some choices. As soon as you step in there, the vines start moving in. They grow an inch or so every time you take a step. I bet it’s designed so we can’t get everything before the room fills up with vines.”

I folded my arms. “How much did you test that already?”

“Don’t look so irritated. We only took a couple steps in there. They didn’t reset after we left the room, but they haven’t grown any further, either.”

I scratched my chin. “You try setting the vines on fire?”

She shook her head. “Not yet. We had a feeling attacking the vines might make them get worse, but it’s probably going to be necessary if we want to get those items you noticed.”

“Do we actually want those things? They could all be traps. Classic temptation strategy. The real reward is the crown right in front of us, but if we step off the trail, we get eaten.”

She shrugged. “Problem is, we don’t exactly have a label on the room to tell us the intent. It could be a virtue test like you’re describing, or it could be a test to see if we’re easily distracted by the obvious solution and miss the thing we really need — the key. Or the glowing wall.”

“Why’d you try to get Mara?”

Sera waved toward the throne. “The vines grow when they detect a step, as far as we could tell. A Guardian like Marissa could jump half way across the room and it’d probably only count as one step.”

I scratched my chin. “Not a bad idea. Can we do something similar with just the two of us?”

Sera winced. “I thought about summoning my karvensi and having him fly across the room, but I’ve been trying to hold off on summoning anything in here. Both because I don’t know how they’d react to a fake tower and because I want to conserve my mana.”

I didn’t know much about summoned monster behavior, but that sounded like a reasonable concern. Still, we didn’t have a lot of good options available. “I think we should try it. I don’t have a better solution, unless you want me totry to blast you across the room with my gauntlet.” “Funny, but no. All right, I’ll take a shot at this.” Sera took a deep breath, glancing from side-to-side. “Karvensi, I summon you.”

The karvensi appeared at her side. It was a little startling — when I was younger, I’d always expected summoning to have some kind of flashy special effect like a puff of smoke or a column of fire. Nothing like that happened — one moment the space next to her was empty, the next moment...bam, karvensi.

And he looked bemused.

“You again?” The winged figure crossed his rather formidable arms, glancing around. “And what is this? It looks like the Serpent Spire, only assembled by a child.”

“You’re not far off.” Sera smirked. “This is an academic test, designed to look similar to the tower. We’re trying to get through as many rooms as possible. We have very little information.” She pointed into the room with the throne. “Those vines grow when we step inside, so I figured a flying creature like yourself might be able to retrieve the things we need without triggering it.”

“I don’t feel like it.” The karvensi turned his nose upward. Sera and I both gawked at him.

I glanced at Sera. “Are summoned monsters supposed to...do that?” She shook her head vehemently. “Uh, I don’t think so?”

The karvensi sighed. “So rude. I’m right here you know.” Sera wiped her forehead. “I knew this was a bad idea.”

I extended a hand toward the karvensi. “I’m Corin Cadence. We haven’t met, but I watched your work in that arena. Really quite impressive.”

The karvensi turned his head, glancing me up and down before focusing on my outstretched hand. “...really.”

I grinned. “Really! We could use someone with your skills to help with this test — and not just with the flying. I’m pretty sure some of the spells you cast in there were stronger than anything I could do on my own.”

Sera gave me an inquisitive look, and then turned back to the karvensi. “Will you help us?”

He turned toward her. “You, miss, were quite rude to bind me without a discussion. But, given that I’m aware that you were mid-battle and clearly out of your depth, I’m willing to put that aside — provided you’re willing to negotiate a real contract.”

She narrowed her eyes. “...can you even do that? You do know that you’re a temporary copy, right?”

The karvensi laughed. “Far better than you, child. It’s somewhat disconcerting to know that my lifespan is limited by your whim — and your available mana —and not feel any fear about it. I know I should have self- preservation instincts, but for some reason, I feel the urge to protect you instead. An element of the binding spell, of course, I have no real attachment to you.”

Lifting a hand, the karvensi looked upward, taking a breath. “There is not, however, any part of your spell that prevents me from thinking about my true self’s interests. You could compel me to take an action against my will. It is already an effort to resist your suggestion of what I could do to help you. But, if you’d rather make an ally than compel a duplicate, I may be willing to offer you a more permanent arrangement...Sera Cadence.”

Sera folded her arms. “And how would you know my name?”

“When another version of me was summoned to fight you, Miss Theas told me a bit about both you and your partner. I retain those memories, as well as the memories from the previous instance in which you summoned me. I will continue to accumulate memories when you summon me again, but your version of me is now distinct from the version contracted with Miss Theas, and thus I will not gain any memories from her subsequent summonings.”

I pointed at the room. “Okay, this is fascinating — really, it is — but we have a limited amount of time on this test. Can we discuss the summoning theory in more detail later?”

Sera raised a hand to silence me. “This is important, Corin. If I’m going to make a contract, that’s going to affect me long-term. You may want to go in there and start working on that room while the karvensi and I discuss.” She frowned, turning her head upward toward the karvensi’s. “Do you have a name?”

“Ah, you finally asked.” The karvensi looked down, meeting her gaze. “You may refer to me as Vanniv.” He folded an arm across his bare chest and made a formal bow, nearly smacking me with a wing in the process.

“A pleasure to formally meet you, Vanniv. Now, please tell me why your true self would benefit from me making an arrangement with a copy?”

“Ah, an excellent question. A mere copy could not normally negotiate on behalf of their true self — but I am a sorcerer, you see. And if we make a contract, I am quite capable of extending that contract back to the real Vanniv. You would then feed mana to him continuously. I’m sure you understand the process. In exchange, you would gain access to my true self’s more formidable abilities...and, of course, long-term access to this personalized copy.”

Sera ran a hand through her hair. “For someone without an instinct forself-preservation, that sounds remarkably like a plan from someone who doesn’t want to die.”

The karvensi grinned. “I said I didn’t have the urge to survive. Intellectually, however? I can still act on the knowledge of what I know I should want.”

I wasn’t kidding when I had said this was fascinating information, but it also wasn’t getting us any closer to finishing the test, and minutes had already past while they negotiated. If I had to guess, it would take at least a few more to come to specific terms. I didn’t know a lot about Summoners, but I did know that they had to negotiate how much mana they’d be feeding their summoned entities, the length of the contract, and some other details.

So, I was on my own for a bit.

I took a step closer to the throne room. I needed to make some decisions.

My goal was to minimize the number of times I made contact with the ground, assuming that was how the room decided how much the vines should be growing.

Can I climb on the vines?I stood at the doorway and looked at them. The vines varied in size and thickness, but they all glistened as if wet. That’d make gripping difficult, so that route was probably out.

Running jumps, maybe?I dismissed that quickly. I’d have to take several steps each time to get a running start. Even if I could jump over small sections, it wouldn’t be efficient.

Blast myself off the ground with the gauntlet’s transference bursts? No, that’s a terrible idea. I’d just hurt myself.

I didn’t have a great solution. We did still have a return bell, so one of us could have tried to switch back out with Jin — but if he had a great idea, he probably would have used it already.

Does the room only react when a person touches the floor? What about items?That was an easy enough test. I fished a copper coin out of my bag and flipped it onto the floor of the room.

No reaction from the vines.

Okay, now I’m getting somewhere.

Can I make something to stand on?I considered throwing the box and using that as a platform to jump on, but just one platform wouldn’t get me very far.

The cage that was around the fountain, maybe?I walked over to the fountain, stepped onto the side, carefully avoiding splashes of the acid. I sheathed my sword. From there, I hopped onto the side of the cage and started to climb.

“What are you doing?” Sera had turned toward me to stare.

“Was going to cut this thing down and try to roll it into the next room. The floor doesn’t seem to react to inanimate objects.”

“Will that even fit through the doorway?”

I glanced at the doorway, then back to the cage, measuring with my eyes. “...probably not.”

I hopped back down, narrowly avoiding falling in the fountain. When I stumbled, I tried to make it look intentional. “Uh, so, are you two done?”

“No, but this is embarrassing. Vanniv, we’ve got a time limit. Can we please finish this discussion later if I promise to re-summon you to conclude our talk soon?”

Vanniv scratched his chin. “Within the day.”

“Agreed.” Sera extended a hand, and Vanniv clasped it at the wrist. “Now, please assist us with handling this test?”

“It does look rather amusing. I do not believe I can carry you both while in flight, if that was what you had in mind.”

“Can you carry just one of us?”

“For a short distance. My wings are not meant to bear a large burden.”

Sera pointed at me. “Take him inside. You can put him down next to the throne.”

Oh, of course I have to be the one going into the trap.

Vanniv picked me up like he was cradling a child. Given our difference in size, I suppose it wasn’t that surprising, but it was still a little embarrassing.

I felt surprisingly little when his wings beat and carried us over the floor. No rush of wind. We were indoors, after all. His stone muscles — were they literally stone? — barely seemed to twitch in response.

Once we were hovering, he floated us into the room. The vines didn’t seem to respond, which was good. We’d only hypothesized about the floor triggering them.

He was breathing heavily by the time he set me down next to the throne. The vines noticeably twitched and pushed in further when my feet hit the floor.

“So, how’s this work? You take the crown and you win?”

I frowned. “We’re not actually sure what the objective of the room is. The crown is the obvious prize, but I’m guessing what we really want is something hidden in the vines, like that shiny thing over by the door.”

I pointed at the small object that I’d seen from the doorway.

“If this is anything like the tower, there are probably multiple things you’d want in here. Or nothing.”

“Well, we’re probably timed, so I’m going to see if this does anything.” I grabbed the crown.

The door to the room slammed shut.

I caught a flash of gold out of the corner of my eye. In a rare display of competence, I kicked myself backward off the throne and onto the floor, pushing myself out of the way of the projectile.

As I pushed myself off the floor, I realized what had nearly hit me — the golden greatsword that had been hiding in the vines in the back corner.

And, as I rose and turned toward where the sword had flown, I saw a new figure.

Nine feet tall, clad in armor of golden leaves. His face was covered by a steel mask that instantly reminded me of Keras, but this one covered every inch of skin.

He held the greatsword in a single hand, while the other arm pointed toward me in accusation.

“You have my crown.”

His voice had force. It reminded me of the pressure I’d felt in the air when I’d encountered Katashi. My knees wanted to buckle, but I held steady.

Vanniv was still hovering above me. “Huh. He looks sort of dangerous.”

I lifted the crown — I’d managed to hold onto it when I’d dodged the sword. “I’m pretty sure that’s supposed to be a representation of the Tyrant in Gold.”

The armored figure tilted his head downward, his eyes burning. And by that, I mean his eyes were literally fire.

“You insult me. I am no mere ‘representation’. The crown is mine.”

I flinched, considering as I turned my gaze to meet the titanic king. “I meant no offense, great one. If the crown belongs to you, I will gladly return it.”

I didn’t think the scenario would support something that easy, but hey, why not try?“You are wise to acknowledge my greatness. Return the crown and I will make your end painless.”

Ah, yeah, not going to go that route.

“That’s a very friendly offer, but I’m afraid I’m going to have to decline.”

A moment of turning my attunement on — and then back off — showed me that both the crown and the Tyrant glowed brightly with magic.

I set the crown on my head, hoping for a surge of power. Predictably, nothing happened.

“Insolent fool. My patience is at an end.”

The Tyrant gestured with his free hand and the vines surged inward toward me.

I ducked, picking up my fallen sword, and lashed out at the closest vines. The blade cut true, severing tendrils in a splatter of ichor, but the vines were far too numerous.

“Vanniv, burn the vines!”

Then they were all around me, wrapping around my limbs and throat. My barrier didn’t trigger to stop them from making contact. They weren’t moving fast enough or applying enough force for it to register them. Not yet, at least.

Vanniv looked down at me, raising a single gray eyebrow. “You want me to set them on fire while in them?”

“Just a little fire to clear them!” Vanniv laughed. “I don’t do little, kid.”

He stretched out a hand just as I felt the tendrils begin to tighten. My vision turned white — and not because of the pressure.

When my eyes cleared, there was a perfectly circular gap in the vines around me, maybe ten feet in diameter. Charred remains littered the floor, but I hadn’t felt a degree of heat.

That was... impressive. Not the intensity of the attack. I’d seen plenty of powerful fire spells. The degree of control necessary to make the flames exclude me.

The vines that had wrapped around my body were still there — a foot or two of plant connected to each limb and around my throat — but they were disconnected from the main body now and had ceased to move. I brushed them away in disgust, turning back to the Tyrant.

“Okay, that was pretty good,” I admitted. “You want to light him up next?”

“With pleasure.” Vanniv pointed a hand at the Tyrant. I saw the effect more clearly this time. A bead of flame manifested in the air right in front of the Tyrant, then flickered as it detonated into an incendiary sphere.

I should have known better than to hope it would be that easy. When the smoke cleared, the Tyrant was unsinged.

An echoing laugh emanated from the armored figure. “Your magic is weak. Your resistance irrelevant.”

Vanniv balled his hands into fists. “Weak? You haven’t seen a fraction of what I can do.”

The Tyrant began to walk forward with a deliberate slowness. He was maybe twenty feet away. It wouldn’t take him long to close the distance even at a slow pace.

Okay, what was I missing here? How did people handle the Tyrant in Gold in legends?My family had never been particularly devout, but the Tyrant was a central aspect of our culture. Everyone knew about him. He’d conquered nearly the entire world outside of Kaldwyn. He was the only entity in the world with enough power to rival the goddess herself.

And, thinking back to the stories of heroes opposing the Tyrant, they all ended one way——the heroes died.

It was possible that trying to beat this guy in a straight fight was unwise. The problem?I didn’t have any better ideas. I didn’t have a bell on me. When I’d used it before, it’d been left behind in the other half of the dungeon. Presumably, the others would have picked up the one that I used, and Sera had the one that Jin had used.

And, unfortunately, Sera was on the other side of a sealed door. “Vanniv, you got anything bigger you can hit him with?”

The karvensi grinned. “Of course! Buy me a few moments, would you?” That I could do.

I raised my sword in a salute.

The Tyrant paused...then mirrored my gesture. Huh.

Maybe there was something there. Was he going to fight honorably?I mean, enshrouding a guy in plants wasn’t exactly the traditional definition of honorable, but maybe there was a way I could take advantage if he was going to be bound to some kind of rules.

I’d have to keep that in mind. But, for the moment, I charged. I hadn’t had a good sword fight in ages.

The Tyrant brought his sword down in a heavy slash. I side-stepped, allowing the greatsword to crash into the floor. It sliced carpet and into the floor beneath.

A quick thrust from me. He stepped backward faster than I’d expected, avoiding the strike, while dislodging the greatsword from the floor.

The room was getting darker, but I couldn’t pay attention to that. The greatsword whistled sideways, threatening to bisect me. I met it with a parry, which was a mistake.

The impact force was staggering. I flew backward, plants deliberately parting around me, and slammed into the nearest stone wall.

My barrier kicked in on that impact, but even the more advanced sigil I’d made wasn’t good at softening kinetic force. I felt a moment of bone-shuddering pain as I cracked into the wall and fell to my knees.

The Tyrant turned to where I’d fallen and walked toward me at a leisurely pace. He was only steps away from melee reach.

I lashed upward from my kneeling position pushed on the sword’s aura with transference mana from my hand. A crescent wave of kinetic energy leapt out of the weapon, ripping through the air.

The Tyrant met it with a swing of his own. For an instant, a sphere of force manifested in the air, and the Tyrant fell back a single step.

Not bad.

I braced myself, using the saber to push myself to my feet — a terrible idea, and a great way to ruin a sword — and allowed myself a grin.

I may have celebrated a little too soon.

The Tyrant gripped his sword with both hands, raising it above his head— and copied my technique.

And even at a glance, I could tell the wave of cutting force that he’d sent toward me was vastly more powerful than my own.

I didn’t have a lot of room to move. The plants had cleared to let me hit the wall (thanks for that, plants), but they were still close enough to impede my ability to dodge.

So, I countered with something more experimental. I activated my demi- gauntlet’s transference burst, but as the energy tried to leave the gauntlet, I grabbed it with my mind and tried to channel it into my sword. If I could combine the sword’s mana with the gauntlet’s, maybe...

My gauntlet’s blast slipped free, careening uselessly into the ceiling. The Tyrant’s slash caught me dead-on.

I heard a solid crack as the impact drove me back into the wall. My barrier had activated; I could see it flickering in front of me, a huge crack across the surface nearly the entire length of my body. From its fluttering, I could see that it had barely held against the strike.

I wondered if it would have killed me — actually killed me — if I hadn’t built myself a stronger barrier.

That was not a happy thought.

And I was tired of getting kicked around by a simulation.

I pushed off the wall, gritting my teeth as I made a diagonal slash and pushed the mana at the Tyrant.

He moved to block, of course.

I rushed forward in the attack’s wake, moving my off-hand. As he deflected my first attack, I threw the crown.

And, as I expected, he turned his head to follow.

Three quick thrusts, each aimed at vulnerable points in his armor.

All three hit.

None had any effect.

There was no visible barrier, no sign of any magic, but I was hitting something harder than stone or steel.

But I didn’t stop.

He turned back to me belatedly, swinging his sword in a lazy arc that forced me to take a step back. I raised my gauntlet and sent a burst of gray mana directly into his face.

That staggered him, but only for a second. He swept horizontally and I knew I couldn’t parry it again. My barrier wouldn’t take another impact with a wall.

I blasted his sword with the gauntlet’s transference function, arresting the blade’s momentum just long enough for me to step back. Then, once out of range, I blasted him with gray mana again.

A single chip fell away from his mask. “I tire of this foolishness.”

I smirked. “I’m just getting warmed up.”

Ah, the most traditional of all boasts. Not exactly creative, but it was a classic. Much like stories of heroes being killed by the Tyrant.

Maybe that wasn’t the best line of thought for my current situation, though.

I raised my sword in another salute. I was getting used to his reach, and my hand was barely tingling from the use of the demi-gauntlet. Months of practice had bolstered my hand’s mana to the point where I could use it over a dozen times without much difficulty.

If he isn’t invincible, and he is predictable, I can beat him.

That was when he kicked me in the chest.

I flew backward. It didn’t carry the same impact as one of his sword swings, but it did surprise me — to the extent that I dropped my weapon.

I ducked his follow-through swing, purely on instinct.

Disarmed, I rushed closer and threw myself at him, punching him with a burst of mana. He didn’t flinch at the impact. Instead, he released a hand from his greatsword to grab at my arm.

I pulled my arm back quickly enough, but that didn’t stop him from responding with a swing of his own. The punch hit me dead in the face and my vision swam.

I hit the floor, feeling something wet on my face. Had he broken my nose?I rolled to the side, heading toward my fallen saber. I did manage to avoid a swing that way, but only as a consequence of the movement, not anything deliberate.

The Tyrant got to my sword first, kicking it further away.

I looked up at him, wiping my face with my left hand. Yep, real blood.

He raised his sword to strike — and a bolt of lightning slammed into his chest.

Oh, so that’s where the darkness was coming from.

The ceiling of the room was covered in clouds.

The Tyrant shivered as the electricity flowed through him. The next bolt struck only a moment later, then the next.

It might have been my imagination, but they seemed to be hitting a lot faster than what I’d seen Vanniv using when he’d fought against Sera and Derek.

“Enough!”

A green sphere of mana appeared around the Tyrant, blocking the next bolt. A tiny crack appeared at the impact point, but I knew barriers enough to know the damage was inconsequential.

How much mana did this thing have?The Tyrant moved, faster than I’d thought him capable of, rushing toward Vanniv.

I wasn’t idle. I crawled — yes, crawled — toward my fallen weapon, picking it up with trembling hands.

As the Tyrant approached Vanniv, I felt the ground begin to tremble.

The Tyrant raised his blade, a golden glow manifesting along the surface of the weapon as the floor of the chamber began to crack. More and more bolts of lightning poured into the green shield, but even their accumulated damage barely made a dent.

Vanniv pushed out both hands, sending a wave of frost at the Tyrant, but the Tyrant cut right through the energy with an upward swing and then leapt into the air, his blade poised for a deadly thrust.

Vanniv pushed his hands outward, surrounding himself with an aura of electricity, bracing for the strike ——but it never came.

The Tyrant, the throne, the vines — everything around us vanished. And the room continued to shake.

Even the carpet disappeared. We were alone in a chamber of white stone, completely bare, as the tremors continued.

“Students, be advised that this test has been prematurely terminated. You will be returned to the briefing room shortly.”

It was Professor Orden’s voice, unmistakable as the real blood on my hand.

A moment later, Orden appeared at my side.

“Take my hand.”

I sheathed my weapon, following her instructions. “What’s going on?” “I’ll explain when you’re all together. Brace yourself.”

“Spirits of wind and air, carry us beyond this place. Teleport!”

I closed my eyes. When I reopened them, I was back in the briefing room. My stomach still swam from the short-distance teleport, but it was nowhere near as bad as what I’d experienced when Orden had cast that bigger teleport spell that took me to her...safe house? Or whatever that place was.

She released my hand and disappeared again. I saw Jin and Marissa already sitting on one of the couches, looking concerned.

Marissa stood as soon as she saw me. “Corin, you’re bleeding.” I nodded. “Took a Tyrant punch to the face.”

Jin frowned. “Harm should not be possible in the simulation.”

I’d assumed that, too. “I think we have bigger problems to worry about.” Another tremor, as if to punctuate my words.

I’d never experienced a normal earthquake. Both my home city of Hathridge and Beaufort, the city that housed Lorian Heights, were protected by environment-controlling magic. The vast domes over the cities were the most obvious indication, but the magic stretched deep into the earth, too.

So, if we were suffering from an earthquake, that meant we were dealing with something seriously bad.

When Orden reappeared next, she had Sera with her. She grabbed Patrick on the next trip... then Vanniv after that.

I was a little surprised the summoned karvensi was still around after Sera had been teleported, but hey, I wasn’t complaining.

“This is a very unusual test,” Vanniv noted.

With our group gathered, Orden turned to Sera. “You may want to dismiss your friend.”

Sera folded her arms. “Why? What’s happening?”

Orden folded her hands in front of her. “The city is under attack.”

