CHAPTER XII — TESTING PHASE ONE

I left Professor Vellum’s office with my mind in a much better place. In spite of her gruff exterior, she provided me with the key information I needed to make my gauntlet work. Better yet, she promised to start private lessons on much more potent enchantments in the future. The kind I couldn’t find in textbooks, even the ones designed for graduates.

It put a bounce back in my step. I fixed the gauntlet almost immediately, and then found an older student to check it. He seemed “pretty sure” it would work.

It did work.

It worked beautifully.

The transference blasts were sufficient to hurl a person across a room with ease. I suspected the gray mana blasts would break ribs, or maybe kill a small monster like a slime outright.

It was about at that point that I remembered I had a team test coming up later in the week, and I still needed to recruit two people.

Getting Jin, as Sera had requested, was simple enough. He came by regularly to pick up the small items I was still working on enchanting for him. I only had a few items left that I thought I could make, and I hoped to finish those before the test if possible.

“Hey, team competitions coming up. Do you have a team yet?”

“Hmm,” Jin replied, projecting disinterest. He tossed the bracelet I’d handed him from his right hand into his left. “Do you?”

“I have Sera and Patrick so far. With you, we’d only need one more, and I have a strong candidate in mind.”

He unclasped the bracelet, and then slipped it around his left wrist and snapped it shut. “I’ll be unable to use the full capabilities of any attunement. Is that acceptable?”

I nodded. “Yeah, I think they’ll be fine with it. With all the things I’ve been making you, I suspect you’re better prepared than any regular attuned would be at this point, anyway.”

His lips stretched into a thin smile. “Better even than you think.”

It was so typical of Jin to play mysterious that I couldn’t help but laugh. He looked offended for a moment and opened his mouth, but closed it a second later without saying anything. Then he smiled again himself and huffed a soft laugh. This smile was smaller than the one before it, but he was still wearing it as he left my room.

My next candidate would be a tougher sell.

I headed to the women’s dorms. It took some asking around just to find the right room.

I thought I saw Cecily Lambert in the distance while I headed toward the Tortoise’s Heart. As with every time I’d seen her on campus, I did my best to pretend I hadn’t seen her. I still wasn’t ready for the conversations we needed to have.

The Tortoise’s Heart was a smaller facsimile of the Tortoise Spire, one of the six Shifting Spires. “Smaller” in this case meant a mere twelve stories in height.

The Heart’s defining features were the encircling walls, designed to resemble those of the tortoise’s shell. The wall was constructed from hundreds of green hexagonal panels, each etched with dozens of runes. I didn’t know if they were actually functional, but I was willing to bet that they were.

A second shell-like fixture hung over the top of the building, casting shade over the entire structure.

The only way into the building was a solitary ramp leading to the middle of the building. From there, I had to take a winding staircase to get to the appropriate floor.

All in all? The building felt less like student housing and more like a fortification.

I kind of loved it, but I wouldn’t ever be getting in.

At any given time, only the hundred and twenty best students in Tortoise Division were permitted to stay here. They retained their old rooms as well. That was necessary, given that they could be kicked out of the Tortoise’s Heart the day their points scores dropped below a competitor’s.

Every class had equivalent buildings; for Phoenix Division, we had the more simply named “Phoenix Hall” for men and the elegant “Phoenix’s Wings” for women. Ours were smaller, however, and only housed fifty students of each sex.

I was paying close attention to my own rankings. Graduating was a high priority, but I wasn’t anywhere close to qualifying for the Phoenix Hall... at least yet. When I’d checked at the Divinatory last, they’d told me I was #238 in my Division with a total of 112 points. We had about fifteen hundred students in Phoenix Division total, which made my rank respectable, but nowhere near the top.

I was nervous for what felt like an infinite number of reasons when I stood in front of the door to one of the rooms, preparing to knock. The main reason was agonizingly simple: in spite of confirming three times, I still worried I was at the wrong room.

The other reasons were a bit more personal, and involved embarrassing hypotheticals of being rejected.

I almost turned away. Instead, I just stared blankly at the door for a solid minute before I got frustrated enough to overwhelm my fear. Then I knocked.

“Just a minute.”

It was the right voice. That made things better and worse. Marissa opened her door a moment later.

“...Corin? What are ye doing ‘ere?”

I gave a pathetic little wave. “Uh, hi. I was, um, wondering if you had a team for the tests this week?”

Her mouth twitched downward a fraction. “No. Why?”

“I was hoping you’d join my team. We’ve got a pretty good group, but we’re lacking front-line fighters.”

She leaned back on her heels and folded her arms across her chest. “Rupert isn’t on your team, is he?” Her eyes flicked behind me, scanning outside the door.

I followed her gaze, twisting to see the empty walkway behind me before turning back to her figure in the doorway, baffled. “Rupert?”

She blinked. “Kent,” she said, as though this were obvious. “Rupert Kent.

From dueling class?”

I shrugged. “I didn’t know his first name. And no, he’s not on the team.

Why would that be a problem?”

“I... well...” Marissa slumped. Her head dipped for a moment, then lifted. She blew her hair out of her face, and her eyes had lost most of the wariness from before. “Do you want to come inside?”

I shrugged and gave her a closemouthed half-smile. “Sure?” “C’mon.”

I followed her into to the room, closing the door behind me.

She sat down on her bed, waving to a seat near a writing desk. I took a seat and shifted in the chair, not sure how to dispel the awkward atmosphere.

My eyes took in the room while I avoided her gaze.

It was half-again the size of mine, and nicer by far. The floor was covered in pristine blue-white carpet, the walls looked freshly painted, and the room’s ceiling was a couple feet higher up. Her bed was much bigger than the one I’d been provided, too, and a metal-covered serving tray was sitting on the writing desk beside her books. One of the perks of these “elite” buildings was that they had their own kitchens, and those kitchens were available to deliver food directly to the rooms.

All that enhanced my interest in getting into Phoenix Hall, though I was still more interested in the points to help me graduate than the added luxury.

“Don’t get the wrong idea, I’m just inviting ye in to talk.” I nodded. “Of course.”

That was all I’d planned on. Now that she’d pointed it out, I could understand why she wanted to set expectations. But with all the things I’d been nervous about, sex wasn’t on the list.

I could see that she might be the type to attract attention. I liked her hair, fine and bright yellow, like corn. But I’d never been interested in people like that. I’d expected that to change as I’d gotten older, but those much-vaunted pubescent urges just never struck me the same way they seemed to hit other people.

I didn’t mind. It meant I could focus on more important priorities, like not dying. That was one of my favorite hobbies.

Once we were seated, I asked the obvious question. “So, what’s all this about Rupert Kent?”

She took a deep breath. “I know it’s not my place to go askin’ someone of your stature anythin’, but please, you can’t go tellin’ anyone ‘bout this.”

I was curious before, but now I was intrigued. I nodded. “Okay. I won’t say anything. Now, what’s this about?”

She sighed, putting a hand over her eyes. “It’s... a bit of a tale.” I adjusted my chair, leaning back. “I’ve got time.”

“I s’pose the first thing ye need to know is that I’m from outside Ellis.” Marissa turned her head away from me, sounding wistful. “Spent my first years on a farm outside of Kentsford.”

“Kentsford? As in, House Kent, I take it?”

She nodded. “The same, m’lord. House Kent be country nobles, and they’ve some of the finest lands outside of the gate. One day, me parents and I were huntin’ near home — within our rights, mind you — and we came upon a noble’s party gallopin’ through. Wouldn’t have been no problem, save that their son be with them, and be of age with me.”

I wasn’t sure how that was an issue, so I just waited for them to continue.

“Little boy Kent says he thinks I’m pretty, and that he wants to take me home. Thought he was just having a laugh, but then I see an older man, much older, looking me over. And I can see his eyes, and I know he thinks me real pretty, too.” She shuddered, her jaw tightening.

“Can’t imagine they had any shortage of young girls about, with all their lands and coins, but maybe I’m just the right kind. Kid is getting real insistent with the parents, so they humor him. The older man comes to talk to my father, sounding real apologetic-like, and explains that he’s Baron Kent, and asks if he’d like to send his daughter to stay with them for a while.

“My father’s not having any of it. ‘She’s only nine,’ he says. I was eleven, but slight of frame at the time. ‘Why don’t you ask her what she’d like?” the baron asks, all charm and smiles.”

I gritted my teeth. I didn’t like where this was going.

“So, my dad, he asks me real nice, if I’d like to go with the boy. I shake my lil’ head and cling to his leg, knowin’ even then that there was nothin’ good to be had from that. Father says he’s sorry, and wishes the baron the best of luck on his hunt, and takes me straight home. The little boy whines until we’re long out of sight.”

She folds her hands in her lap. “If that was the end of it, I’da thought no more of it. But each year, he shows up again. Doubt he thinks I’ll change my mind, but he never stops. Was hoping my attunement would finally put him off, but you saw him in class.”

I’d known that country nobles had a reputation for taking their status much more seriously than my own family did. I expected that higher ranking nobles in the city probably did too, but I hadn’t spent a lot of time around them. My family had only been nobility for a few generations. We’d been granted it for military service, so we weren’t exactly old blooded traditionalists.

I hadn’t realized just how much of a difference that would make, though. A child wanting to play with another child was one thing. Treating another person like a possession was something else entirely.

“I’m sorry that you had to deal with that.” I knew the statement was insufficient, especially given the implication that Kent’s father might have been trying to get her to come home with them. Disgusting wasn’t a strong enough word to describe what that implied.

“Nice of you to say so. But you’ll forgive me if I’m a bit distrustful.”

I sighed. “I understand... Goddess, I don’t know what I’d do in your place.

Do you think he knows that his father was... well, interested in you?”

I rubbed my forehead. She shook her head. “Don’t think so. But don’t you start spreadin’ that—”

“I won’t. I just figured that might put things into context, get him to stop bothering you.”

“He’d just laugh at me. Not to be rude, but ye don’t know him like I do, that’s clear as city sky. Not a chance he’d believe, even if ye’d be telling him. And even if he did believe it, I doubt he’d care a wick.”

That certainly made things trickier. “All right. Well, you’re right, I don’t know him. But I would like to get to know you. And no, just to be clear, I don’t mean intimately. I just mean that you seem competent, and our team could use someone who can punch out lightning.”

Marissa breathed a laugh. “I s’pose that’s something I could do for you.” “Also, you don’t need to worry about my family being important, or beingrude to me. I’m about the least important noble in the world right now. I’ll explain my whole story to you later, if you’re interested in hearing it.”

She bit her lip over a mouth that was still trying to smile before she said, “I s’pose I would be.” She seemed much happier than she had when our conversation began.

“All right, then. But for the moment, if you’re willing, I think we both have some papers to sign.”

I offered my hand to clasp. She accepted it.

***Vasday, the ninth week of school. The day of our first test.

I scratched absently at my wrist, just under the demi-gauntlet, while we waited outside the testing room. I’d finished making the necessary adjustments the night before. It seemed to be working as intended now, at least in my initial tests. I didn’t have time to ask Professor Vellum to look it over after I’d finished making the changes, so I was hoping I wouldn’t have to make use of it during the test.

Of course, knowing me, I’d find some way to convince myself to use it either way.

We had a few minutes before our time slot, and I could tell most of the others were just as nervous as I was. Even Jin was showing it in his own stoic sort of way, shifting his eyes from side-to-side a little more frequently than necessary as he leaned against the wall near the door.

Patrick was the worst, visibly rolling back and forth on his feet.

We all knew that the stakes of this test were high. It was worth up to a hundred points. One fifth of what we needed to graduate. Even more importantly, a failing grade would result in immediate expulsion. Straight to military service, no further training.

I couldn’t afford to let that happen. I needed this training, as well as thechance to serve out my military years as a climber.

I would not let myself fail here.

Sera examined her watch, a purchase from our recent shopping excursion. “Five minutes to go.” She shook her head. “Try to breathe, Patrick.”

He gave a nervous chuckle. “Breathing. Right. I knew I was forgetting something.”

She smirked. “As for the rest of you, once we get inside, just follow my lead. If this is anything like the actual tower we won’t have any difficulty.”

When I said “most” of us were nervous, Sera was the exception. Her grin was razor-sharp and her eyes glowed with eagerness.

I wish I could have mirrored her enthusiasm.

The doors opened a couple minutes later and an unfamiliar second-year student led us inside. She was a short, black-skinned girl with stylish spectacles and a pristine Serpent-class uniform.

I’d never been inside the testing facility before. I knew Tristan had taken a practice Judgment in a similar place at a different school, but I never had the chance to do the same.

The entry room was remarkable in its unremarkableness. Just white- painted walls, a row of five chairs, and doors at the center of each wall. It was perfectly square, maybe twenty feet across.

The older student led us to the chairs. “Sit.”

We took our seats, glancing at each of the doors. They weren’t marked.

The student folded her arms. “Okay, we’re short on time, so I’ll get right to it. The first test is with smaller groups, so you’re splitting up. Two groups of two, one standby. Both the groups of two will start at the same time in different tests. Either of them can call in the standby to swap out for one of their members at any time. I’ll give you a signet to call the swap. You’ve got...” she looked at her wrist, but she wasn’t wearing a watch, “...three minutes to pick your teams. Wait here.”

With that, she walked away, heading into room directly opposite from where we’d entered. We dragged our chairs into a circle, and then looked expectantly at Sera.

She drew back, glancing around. “Don’t stare at me. This is a group decision.”

We kept staring.

She caved with characteristic eye roll. “Okay, fine.” She pursed her lips and looked around at us. “This is a good opportunity for us to work together on a smaller scale. It’ll help with our teamwork when we do the bigger tests... I’m sure that’s the point.” She paused, biting a hangnail on her thumb absently. “Jin, you’re still not telling us what your attunement is, yeah?”

They stared each other down. Jin looked away first. “Well, I could tell you,” he said brightly, “but it wouldn’t necessarily be true...”

The tone rang false after my exposure to his normal formal stoicism. His normally wry humor had an edge to it. He was even more nervous than I realized.

Sera tilted her head back, clearly considering. She knew about the items I was making him, and I’d shown her the list of the ones I’d finished so far. As our nominal leader, it was important that she had as good of an idea of his capabilities as possible.

“Okay,” she decided, “you’re sitting out. Corin, Patrick, and I have a pretty good idea of what you can do, and we’ll call you in if we need to.”

Jin nodded curtly. “A wise stratagem.” He rotated his shoulder, avoiding anyone’s gaze.

Sera glanced at Marissa next. “Marissa, you’re the strongest fighter we have. If they tell us which room is going to involve fighting, I’ll put you in there with Patrick; he’ll support you from range. If we’re going in blind, you’re with me. Any objections?”

We shook our heads. It seemed like a pretty reasonable way to break things down. I folded my arms. “Anyone have any insights from other students? I know some of them were taking the test earlier this week.”

“Sworn to secrecy.” Patrick was tapping his foot, probably unconsciously. “Think we’ll get the same speech when we finish our test. Roland was adamant that there would be consequences if he spilled anything. From the sound of it, they’re real serious about keeping this test a surprise.”

That made sense. A test similar to the tower would be vastly easier if someone already knew the challenges in advance.

I knew we’d be taking more than one test like this; I’d seen future tests on the schedule. At least two more tests of this kind before our first trip into the actual tower, maybe more in the second half of the year.

Maybe I could find a way to make some sort of observation device enchantment and leave it in one of the chambers? It would have to be one of the self-recharging kind, since I probably wouldn’t have a chance to find it and recharge it. It’d be expensive, but observation devices were fairly standard.

I was confident I could build one in time for the second test if I could afford the materials. I’d have to figure out a good way to hide it, though. Other students had certainly tried that sort of thing before and the professors would be on the lookout for them.

The older student came back out of the room, holding a pair of bells. “Okay, who wants these?”

Sera reached out a hand. “I’ll take them and distribute them once we know where we’re going.”

The student frowned. “Haven’t picked your teams yet? You’re out of time, kid.”

Sera tightened her jaw. I could see her biting back a retort about being a ‘kid’ in her expression. “We have two team setups, depending on how much you’re going to tell us about the rooms in advance. Do we get any foreknowledge on the types of challenges?”

“Nope. Pick or I pick for you.”

Sera took the bells, then handed me one. “Plan B, then. You’re with Patrick. C’mon, Marissa.”

We all stood up, arranging ourselves into teams.

“All right, standby kid, go into the room I was just standing in. You two,” she pointed at Sera and Marissa, then at a door on the left side of the room, “over there.”

They walked to the door, standing just outside it. “And you two, by the magical process of elimination, get to go to that door.”

I rolled my eyes, waving for Patrick to follow me. When we reached the door, I tucked the bell away in a pouch on my side.

“Case you kids didn’t pick up on another obvious thing, this is a return bell. You can ring the bell if you want to swap out. Make sure the person ringing it is the one that wants to leave.”

I’d guessed most of that, but it was good to confirm. A question occurred to me, though. “Any limit on the number of swaps we can do?”

“Nah, just going to cost you a headache.”

That was good, but, “Do we lose points for switching people?” “Can’t tell you how you’re scored.”

“Does the bell stay with the person who rings it, or does it stay in the room?” I could tell she was getting annoyed, but it was worth it to push for as much information as I could get.

Unfortunately, she had reached the end of her patience. “So many questions!” she griped. “It’ll drop where you used it. There’ll always be a return bell in the test room.”

I looked across the room at Sera. “Do we want to arrange pre-set times to switch and share info?”

The older student wasn’t having that. “Cute idea, kid, but you’re out of strategy time. Test starts in three... two...”

Oh, resh!“One... go.”

We opened our doors. The inside of my room was pitch black, so Ihesitated to step inside immediately — but that turned out not to matter. An unseen force yanked me inside the moment I processed the black. I heard an amused, “Have fun!” echoing from somewhere behind me as I stood amidst the dark.

***So, I wasn’t afraid of the dark exactly, but I admit I was more than a littleconcerned.

Yeah, concerned. That’s a good word.

Once I stopped shaking, I took a deep breath and considered my options. I didn’t have any kind of light magic available, but Patrick could probably illuminate the room with fire... assuming there wasn’t anything combustible in the air.

They wouldn’t do that, would they?I held off on the suggestion, just in case the teachers were feeling particularly malicious with the room’s design.

I also wasn’t even sure Patrick was still with me. “Patrick, you there?”

There was a brief, disconcerting pause. “Uh, yeah, sorry. I can’t see, can you?”

“No, but I’m working on it.”

Maybe I could see something with my attunement enabled?I concentrated for a moment, activating my attunement. The light was nearly as blinding as the darkness.

The whole room glowed brightly under my enhanced vision, which shouldn’t have surprised me. The test was probably being constructed from a whole bunch of illusions and enchanted objects, meaning practically everything was magical.

The luminescence of the objects in the room didn’t extend to anything around them, so I wasn’t exactly getting a clear image of the whole place, just glowing outlines within a canvas of black. It was enough to let me pick out some key features, though.

The room itself was rectangular, and I was near one of the corners, standing on solid ground. A man stood next to me. Presumably, that was Patrick, but I couldn’t actually see that level of detail. All I could make out was a glowing person’s outline. He had something in his right hand. A dueling cane, maybe?No door behind us, but I could see outlines that might have been doorframes on two of the walls.

The center of the room was obscured, and it took me a few seconds to figure out what I was looking at. There was a dome-shaped cage, with somelight leaking through the bars, making it look almost solid.

There was a humanoid figure standing inside the cage, arms uplifted toward the ceiling. Completely immobile. That was mildly disconcerting.

I saw something that looked like a box on the floor near a corner directly across from where I was standing. The glow around it was vibrant red, indicating some kind of destructive magic. An explosive, then? Or a trapped box?A rectangular wedge jutted out of the floor in front of the cage. It was too thin to be another box. It looked like a wall segment that was out of position.

Finally, there were small, rod-like objects attached to several of the walls.

It took me an embarrassingly long moment to realize what they were. “There are unlit torches on the walls. Can you make fire?”

I hadn’t disproven the presence of flammable gas, but my attunement wasn’t picking up anything obvious, and the presence of torches pretty strongly implied they were meant to be lit.

“Uh, yeah, but I only know attack spells. They’re not really meant for light.”

I nodded, belatedly realizing he couldn’t actually see my response. “That’s fine. I’ll guide you to a torch, and hopefully it’s got some kind of material on the top you can ignite. If not, we’ll try something else.”

I wasn’t big on touching other people, but it couldn’t be helped. It was easier for me to tolerate when I was the one initiating contact, at least. “Going to grab your hand and lead you. Follow slowly.”

“Got it.”

His skin felt weirdly clammy. Maybe that was normal, though... it’d been a while since I’d held anyone’s hand. A long while. I guided him to the a torch on the wall nearest us and set his hand on top of it.

“That’s it. I’d recommend trying something weak.” I pulled my own hand away, taking a step back.

“I could have figured that one out on my own, Corin.” The wry observation was tempered by Patrick’s natural geniality. “Okay, lemme see.” He took a breath.

“Extinguished fire in the night, I beseech you to Ignite.”

A sphere of flame manifested in Patrick’s hand and blasted through the torch, right into the wall behind it. I winced at the scorch marks left on the wall, but the spell succeeded at serving its purpose. The torch was lit, but not without consequence.

The chime of a bell sounded in the distance. I frowned, looking around the room, but I couldn’t see the source of the noise.

I could see the rest of the room a bit more clearly, though, even with only one torch lit.

We weren’t far from the box. In better lighting, I determined that it was... a box. Not a treasure chest, not a coffin, not even a wooden crate. A box. It had no obvious seams, cracks, or keyhole. I couldn’t even tell what it was made out of.

I could see the cage a little more clearly, too. No prisoner inside, but there was something... a statue of Tenjin, the Visage of Inspiration. She was at the center of a fountain, with water descending from her uplifted hands into the basin below. I thought I caught a glimmer of something metallic near her feet, but it was still too dark to see.

The torch itself was wrought from blackened metal with a glass-encased top, almost like a lantern, but with a visible sphere of orange fire swirling within. I felt fortunate the fire spell had worked. If I’d seen the strange torch more clearly before I tried the plan, I would have assumed the glass would have blocked the spell.

Upon closer examination, I found a piece of fiber. A wick, maybe? It led right into the enclosed glass. That meant the torches could probably be lit through mundane means, too. I hadn’t actually brought any fire starting supplies in my bag, but I’d have to think about that for next time.

“You got enough mana to light the other torches?” I noted five more of them around the room. With some light available, I also turned off my attunement. Keeping it on was going to give me a headache, as well as drain my mana supply.

Patrick grinned, looking visibly more confident now that we had a bit of light. “Yep, I’ll get started.”

He walked over to the next one, put his hand over it, and repeated his incantation. A brief flicker of flame, the torch was lit—And the room went black.

There was no bell to accompany this event. It was a hiss in the air, a sound of something being torn apart, followed by the growl of something bestial.

At that point, I was no longer merely concerned. I’d made the leap straight to terrified.

Something slammed into me with battering-ram force. I flew backward, smashing into the wall, my shield sigil absorbing as much of the impact as it could. I sunk to the floor.

“Corin?” came Patrick’s uncertain voice. “Reshing relight the other torch, now!”

I turned my attunement back on just before it hit me again, a clawed hand the size of my torso tossing me along the wall and sending me skidding acrossthe floor.

“I can’t see where it is!”

The beast was fast, nearly on top of me again before I had a chance to reply. It wasn’t truly visible even with my attunement active, more of a blur of disruption within the things I could see. From the blur of movement streaking toward me, I pictured a lion the size of a carriage, trailing multiple spine- laced tails.

I raised my demi-gauntlet and focused my will, pressing raw mana into the device. A sphere of gray mana flashed from my outstretched hand, blasting into my onrushing foe. The impact didn’t stagger it much — I was using the attack function, not the knockback function — but it let out a roar of pain at the impact.

The blast had also briefly illuminated the room enough for me to get a better look at what I was fighting. It wasn’t a lion... it was utterly, horribly worse. It looked more like a horned panther with draconic scales the size of my fist, each of the tails I’d seen before a serpentine tendril that extended from the creature’s spine. The tendrils moved independently and several of them were raised above the creature’s back, looking poised to strike like a snake.

I wanted nothing to do with that thing, but it seemed to have a difference of opinion.

Tendrils descended like spears from the sky.

I focused again, sending mana into the other rune. There was a sharp burst of pain from using so much of my power in rapid succession, but the blast of kinetic energy that ripped out managed to knock the creature back a few steps, throwing the tendrils out of position. They ripped into the stone floor, and then it was dark again.

“Just throw a fireball at it, I’m under attack over here!” “Oh, goddess! Um, flames of, no...”

Something hit my left shoulder — a smaller impact than the claw had been. I heard a crack and felt a jolt of agony, letting out a roar of my own at the sensation.

I twitched my head to the side just as something else whistled past, intersecting the space where it had been a moment before.

Then there was light, a chime, and the creature retreated, passing right through the wall at my side.

Patrick had relit the first torch he’d ignited. Now that we could see a little more clearly, I groaned and pushed myself into a sitting position.

My left arm was numb, but the pain had largely faded. A glance didn’t show any visible injuries. The shield sigil must have stopped it from piercingthrough me.

Patrick rushed to my side. “You all right?”

I rubbed at the arm; it wasn’t just numb, it felt cold. “I think so, but I might need to find a healer after this. Nothing urgent. Don’t relight that other torch.”

“No kidding. What do you think that thing was?”

I tried to shrug — and that hurt. Okay, no more moving that arm for a while.

I started to push myself to my feet, and Patrick knelt down and helped haul me into a standing position without prompting. It was a little awkward, but I was grateful nonetheless.

“Not sure. Something related to barghensi and behemoths, maybe, but of a shadow variety? The flames seemed to scare it off. Light probably hurts it.”

Patrick pointed at the wedge I’d seen with my attunement on. “This thing has some writing on it, maybe that’ll tell us.”

He had better eyes than I did. I couldn’t see any writing at that distance. We approached cautiously, but there were no other obvious monsters in evidence.

As I got closer, I saw that my companion was right; the wedge was a stone tablet, floor to ceiling, with tiny letters etched into the surface near the middle. Said middle was slightly higher up than my head. With the low light and the distance, I had some trouble reading it, but I managed to piece it together over a minute or so.

Six visages of goddess see, The light of mortal destiny. Two to keep our bodies strong,A pair to keep our hearts from wrong, A final two to light the path,And keep us from the goddess wrath. Each guides us in a different way, And for these gifts a toll we pay.

Six visages of goddess see, The light of mortal destiny.

My face twitched as I noted the grammatical and capitalization errors in the poem — really, “goddess wrath”? — but I brushed the instinct aside as best I could. I’d need some time to think about the poem to sort out the relevant parts. In the meantime, I walked to the other side of the tablet, inspecting it and finding a second message.

You will be devoured within the dark.

I shivered. That was certainly more direct, but definitely not comforting. “Ooookay.” I looked at Patrick. “You read all that?”

“Yeah. Looks like we’re supposed to give gifts to the visages?”

“I don’t think it means literal gifts,” I said. “I’m guessing they’re talking about those torch things. Except, you know, they’re not actually torches. Going to guess we need to light each torch in the appropriate way.”

Patrick nodded. “Different element for each, then? How do we know which element goes to each torch-thing?”

I almost tried to shrug again, but managed to abort the motion before I hurt myself this time. “Might not have to do them in any kind of order. I didn’t see any runes or symbols of specific visages on them, and we’d have to have been really lucky to get fire right on the first try if there is supposed to be a specific gift for each. We should look at them more carefully, but it more likely just means we have to do six different elements in any order.”

“I don’t actually have spells for six elements, though,” he reminded me. “Maybe gray counts? It might not even be different elements, anyway.

Maybe it’s just different spells. Let’s take a closer look at the first one before we even try anything else, though. Also, I want a look around the room in general.”

I limped my way toward the lit torch, muscles sore from the impacts with the floor and walls. I frowned as soon as I noticed the tiny rune etched into the surface of the metal base. I didn’t recognize it.

“There’s a marking here.” I pointed at it.

Patrick walked up next to me. “Never seen that before. One of your Enchanter things?”

“Probably, but not one I’m familiar with. I’ve got a book, but it would take too long to look it up.” I walked over to the next torch, squinting at the base. Another marking — a different one. “Not good. This has a different rune. There probably is a specific element for each. Or maybe a specific sequence we have to light them?”

“I could try hitting the next one with lightning and seeing if it works,” Patrick offered.

I shook my head vehemently. “I’m not ready to face whatever that thing is again. Let’s see if we can find another clue somewhere else in here.”

Drawing closer to the cage, I got a better look at the fountain and, more importantly, the gleaming object within. A silvery-white key. That was obviously important.

Could I get it out immediately? A blast from the knockback function on my demi-gauntlet might displace enough water to reveal the key, then a second well-placed blast might knock it out... but I’d seen an aura between the bars. There was probably a shield on the whole thing; it was probably cage-shaped so we could see the prize within. Maybe I could bust through the shield, but it didn’t seem worth the mana to experiment.

I found Patrick kneeling next to the box. “Kinda want to know what’s in here.” He picked up the box — which I wouldn’t have done — and shook it— which I definitely wouldn’t have done. I could hear something clinking around inside.

“Please don’t break that.” My hand twitched as I envisioned a potion bottle cracking inside.

“Oh, right. Sorry.” He set it back down. “I don’t see any openings. I could try to blast it open?”

“Let’s save that approach for if we can’t figure anything else out. I’m going to see if I can find—”

Glowing eyes in the far corner of the room. It may have been my imagination, but I felt like the whole room had gotten just a little bit darker.

“Relight the torch, Patrick.” I took a step backward, nearly tripping over the box.

“Hrm?” “Relight it!”

I pointed my hand toward the glowing eyes, readying another attack. They narrowed slightly in response. I could see no sign of the creature’s body within the darker corner, so I couldn’t even be certain it was the same monster as before.

Patrick moved back to the original torch, repeating his original incantation over it. There a flicker of white, then the torch’s glow returned to full strength. When I looked again, the eyes were gone.

I drew in a sharp breath. “Okay, looks like those torches go out on their own after a while. How’s your mana?”

“I’m still fine.”

I nodded and withdrew the bell from my pouch. “I’m going to swap out for a minute for Jin. He has some divination abilities; have him look at the runes and the box.”

“You’re leaving?” Patrick’s expression sank.

“You or Jin can swap out and bring me back in just as soon as you’ve picked up more info,” I assured him. “Keep your eyes on the walls, too, and be ready to kill that thing with fire.”

With that, I rang the bell. My stomach lurched as my vision went white.

***I was in a waiting room. There were two large couches. The older student who’d brought us in was lounging across one of them. Jin sat stoically on the other, hands folded in his lap.

Odd. I’d expected him to swap places with me instantly, but I guess that wasn’t how this worked.

The female student sat up. “Oh, hey! You actually did the bell thing? Huh.

Guess you’re up, then!” She pointed at Jin.

Jin turned his head to look at me quizzically.

I nodded a greeting to him. “Got some stuff in there that we need Divination for. Feel free to switch back out for me after you identify things, but you can stay in there if you think you can solve it.”

His mouth twisted as his eyes flicked from my face to my disarrayed uniform, lingering on my unresponsive arm. “You look like you got hit by a carriage.” He sounded irritated.

I raised my good arm self-consciously, trying to smooth out a wrinkle with a gauntleted hand. “Uh, yeah. Don’t let the room get dark. Patrick will explain the rest.”

The student supervising us pointed at the single door at the far side of the lounge. “That’ll take you back to the entrance room, then head toward the door his team went into when they started. You can ring the bell again if you need to.”

Jin nodded, heading that way with haste.

I sat down on the couch carefully, inspecting my arm now that I had sufficient light. No visible damage, but it still felt numb. I looked at the older student. “Why does my arm still feel weird? I figured any illusory damage from in there would fade as soon as I got out.”

“You won’t get any answers about the test from me, kid.” She smirked.

I rubbed the arm, grimacing. “Can I do whatever I want in here, at least?”

She tilted her head to the side. “Sure, I guess. You’re technically still taking the test.”

Okay, then. How can I game that?I didn’t have any way of healing my arm. Even if I had conventional healing, I wasn’t sure it would work on what was probably fake damage.

If it was a mental effect, which seemed possible, I might be able to get rid of it if I had something designed for purging mind control, but I didn’t have that either. Sleep might have fixed it, but I’d never been good at falling asleep on command.

I settled for doing something I knew I could do. I started recharging my shield sigil. The process was relatively simple: I just touched the sigil andgradually pushed gray mana into it. As long as I was making contact with the device, it would accept the mana and slowly begin to recharge. I’d gone through the process enough times now that I could tell when it had reached capacity.

A full recharge still took me a few minutes. Teft’s ability to recharge the sigils in a few moments was pretty impressive. Most people, even experts, didn’t have that kind of mana control. I was getting faster at it, but I had a long way before I reached Teft’s level of proficiency.

I was still in the process of recharging when Patrick appeared in front ofme.

On the floor.

More alarmingly, he wasn’t moving.

I rushed to his side, kneeling and gingerly rolling him over. Unconscious.

It took me a moment to confirm that his chest was still rising and falling.

I heard a laugh from the other couch. “Looks like you lost one.”

I whipped my head up to glare at her. “What’s wrong with him?” I demanded.

She rolled her eyes. “Relax, kid. He’s just asleep. He’ll wake up when the test is over.”

I let out a low growl, which actually drew an expression of concern from her. Reaching down with both arms, I lifted Patrick from the cold stone of the floor and set him down on the couch I’d vacated.

I didn’t realize that the numbness in my arm was gone until after I’d finished moving him. Anger had burned away the chill in my mind.

I stomped my way toward the exit door.

“Where are you going?” The other student asked. “To finish this.”

I pushed into the main room, then back to the door where I’d first entered the challenge. I didn’t know what the rules were for re-entering when someone was knocked out, but she had said that I was still technically taking the test.

I opened the door and saw the swirl of darkness within. This time, I was ready.

***The sound of muffled gunfire reached me before sight took hold.

The room was moderately lit this time, three torches burning different colors on the walls. Jin was backpedaling rapidly, twin revolvers in his hands. The creature, now fully visible, lashed out at him with vicious speed, four tendrils striking downward with whip-like motions, piercing the floor as Jin jumped and fired his guns. Both shots hit home, joining other bullet holes inthe creature’s scaly hide. The wounds dripped green ichor that sizzled as it splattered against the room’s floor.

Jin had the creature’s attention, but his attacks seemed to be having a minimal effect. It retracted the tendrils and lunged, jaws outstretched. Jin stepped to the side, brushing a corner of his coat into the creature’s mouth. It snapped down on the cloth, fangs piercing into the uniform as Jin twisted and pressed a revolver against the top of its head, firing straight into the skull.

The beast recoiled at the impact, tearing a ragged section out of Jin’s coat and shaking its head as if to rid itself of an insect. Then it surged again, too close now for Jin to dodge.

So he didn’t. He kicked it in the face once, twice, and thrice before bringing his gun down to smash it in the face.

By this point, I had my sword drawn, and I was slowly advancing. I really didn’t want to get into melee range of that thing, but the sword was undoubtedly the most effective weapon in my possession. If bullets were barely slowing the thing down, I had little chance of killing it with the gauntlet or the cane sitting on my opposite hip.

A tendril snapped forward, forcing Jin to duck to avoid being impaled, and the creature took that opportunity to ram him with its horns. Jin tried to shift to the right, but one of the horns caught him as the beast charged. I saw his barrier flicker into existence, then begin to splinter and crack as the creature pushed, slamming Jin into the wall.

Jin gasped as the move knocked the air out of his lungs, then began pounding on the creature’s head ineffectively with his weapons. I didn’t know why he wasn’t firing the guns, but I couldn’t let this go on. The cracks spreading like spiderwebs across his barrier were a sign that it was at critical capacity. In a moment, he’d go from merely being crushed to having a three foot horn sticking through his chest.

Unacceptable.

I felt the wisps of frost gathering on my blade as I thrust it into the creature’s side, aiming for where I hoped a heart might be. I wasn’t exactly familiar with the anatomy of unidentifiable nightmare monsters, from the way it roared as the saber pierced through a soft-spot between scales I guessed I’d hit something important.

It tried to turn toward me, and I pushed the weapon deeper, letting out a roar of my own as I shoved. A visible layer of frost expanded outward from the wound, spreading across the creature’s flank.

It spun, swept my legs out from under me with a claw, and then jumped backward as I hit the floor.

And as I recovered, readying a gauntlet to block the next strike, it turned— and it ran.

Taking my sword with it as it passed through the wall. My eyes widened. I... hadn’t realized that was possible.

Jin had recovered before I did, reaching down with a hand and helping me to my feet. “Good timing,” he observed. His breaths had slowed to an almost normal rate. “Patrick is dead. We solved the torch problem, but the creature came anyway.”

“What’s the solution?” I glanced at the torches. Only two of them remained lit, indicating one of them had gone out during the fight.

“They’re in matched pairs. Doesn’t matter which mana type you start with, but you need to light the match with the same type.”

And we’d tried to light two non-matching ones with fire, and failed the puzzle. That made sense. “Okay, so we’ve still got two lit with... what is that, lightning?” The two lit torches had some kind of crackling energy floating within them.

Jin nodded. “I do not know if we have enough distinct mana types for the two remaining pairs without Patrick. We had managed to ignite two pairs, but the creature ambushed him when he walked into the darkness to light the last.”

Ugh. “Did you try gray?”

He again nodded. “Doesn’t work.”

I frowned, thinking back to the poem.

Two to keep our bodies strong,A pair to keep our hearts from wrong, A final two to light the path.

Maybe the pairs had to be physical, mental, and, uh, light? I wasn’t really sure on that last one.

It was worth trying. I cautiously moved over to the nearest unlit torch and pressed my gauntlet against it. “Have you tried transference?”

“No.”

I activate the gauntlet, blasting the torch with raw kinetic force. The torch shook, cracks appearing on the surface of the glass — oops — and a flicker of light manifested within the orb.

Success!“Looks like that one works. Do you know which one—,”

Jin was pointing to the other side of the room when I turned to look at him. There was a torch back there, sure, but that wasn’t what he was pointing at.

Eyes in the dark. My sword was still lodged in the creature’s side, the weapon’s icy glow illuminating a patch of frost that was still slowly spreadingacross the monster’s hide.

I cracked my neck. It was time to get my sword back. I glanced at Jin. “You need a minute to reload?”

“I already did. That monster can make itself selectively incorporeal, though. If it sees me aiming, it’ll just go incorporeal to avoid most of the hits.”

Why wasn’t it going incorporeal to get rid of the sword, then? Oh, maybe the weapon being stuck in it meant the creature’s ability treated the saber as part of its own body? That explained how it managed to take the weapon out through the wall earlier.

“I’ll distract it.” “Patrick said that, too.”

...That’s grim.

“Well, it sounds like he did... at least for a minute.” I drew my dueling cane with my left hand. I wasn’t as good at using it with my left, but I could manage, and the demi-gauntlet would interfere with using it in my right.

“True,” Jin admitted.

“Going left.” I stepped left and opened fire with the cane, feeling the sharp pull of mana through my hand. It was a familiar sensation, as invigorating as it was painful.

Only half of my blasts landed. I’d expected a rush, but it started leaping in a zig-zag pattern to avoid the assault, showing more intelligence than I expected. Spines descended from the air as it approached. I flicked the switch on the cane’s hilt, side-stepped, and deflected the first spine with the blade.

The creature hissed, the second spine missing me as it winced at the impact of a bullet against its side. I jumped over a sweeping claw, then danced back as it attempted to gore me, jamming my blade toward the bullet- hole that Jin had put in its skull. I missed as it continued to move, losing my grip on the cane as it impacted an undamaged portion of the skull. The weapon went flying to the side, further gunshots piercing the creature’s hide as it reared up on its hind legs.

I didn’t like the look of that.

I was already jumping to the side when it slammed its feet down and breathed fire in a vast arc, blasting nearly a quarter of the room. Even outside the main arc of the flames, my barrier still visibly manifested to protect me from the rising heat.

It was still spitting out the blast of incendiary breath when I rolled beneath it, grabbed the hilt of my sword, and pulled.

The saber’s blade was sharp, but I wasn’t pulling at the right angle to make a good cut.

I had something a little different in mind: cracking some ice.

I put my full weight into it as I pulled, feeling something give in the creature’s side as the section of frozen hide began break apart.

The creature howled, dragging me along the floor as it rushed toward a wall, one of its massive legs landing on top of one of mine with a crunch.

I slipped free, sword in hand, as a section of frozen hide gave way.

The creature, still solid, slammed into the wall a few meters ahead of me.

At last, it lay still.

It was only in reflection afterward that I realized that I’d almost made the thing collapse on top of me... which would have brought a swift and uncomfortable end to my test.

As it was, I couldn’t feel my left leg, the one it had stomped on as it retreated.

“Jin...” I mumbled, a spark of cold surging through my leg, “Make sure it’s dead.”

He walked over to me, reaching out a hand expectantly. Nearly incapacitated by the spreading feeling of numbness, it took me a moment before I understood what he wanted.

Oh, right.

I flipped the sword around, offering him the hilt. He accepted it, walked over to the monster, and stabbed it a dozen times.

“Dead,” he pronounced, and walked back over.

I breathed a sigh of relief, pushing myself into a seated position. “You going to get up?” he asked mildly.

“I’m not sure I can. Thing stepped on me while I was under it.” “That was a stupid move.”

I nodded, wincing. “Yeah, I guess so.”

“Worked, though,” he allowed. “And you gave me an idea.”

He walked over to one of the last two unlit torches and swiped my sword into the globe.

A moment later, the blue-white glow of frost manifested within the sphere. Jin smirked in satisfaction, moving to the last torch as I ineffectively massaged my leg.

Another flick of the blade — Jin clearly knew how to handle the thing — and the last torch was lit.

The cage in the center of the room rumbled, and then lifted, an unseen hook pulling it until it contacted the ceiling. The cage remained in place, hovering over the statue, but there was sufficient room to access the things within it now.

Jin walked over to me next. “The pain is in your head. Shake it off.”

“Uh, trying.” The best I managed was to push myself into a crawl, getting me a little closer to the statue. “Anything in there aside from the key?”

He shook his head. “No.” He looked down at me, sighed, and laid the sword down on the floor. “You’re no good to me like this.” He reached into a pouch at his side, withdrawing a flask, and then handed it to me. “Drink, it’ll heal you.”

I didn’t know if a healing potion would work on illusory damage, but it was probably worth trying. I opened the flask and took a drink. The liquid inside tasted foul, nothing like any healing potion I’d ever tried. I made a face. A whirring sensation started in my head as I handed the flask back to him.

I felt weirdly warm in the aftermath, and the leg did feel a bit better. “Thanks.” I fumbled to pick up my sword, sheathed it, and pushed myself to my feet.

The numbness was still there, but it felt distant and weaker, so I managed to stumble my way over to the pool. I started to reach down to the water, but Jin slapped my hand away.

“Wait.”

I turned, tilting my head at him in confusion.

He tossed an expended bullet casing into the water. I watched as it disintegrated a moment later.

Oh.

Not water.

“Well, that complicates things,” I mumbled. “Yes.”

I considered my original plan of clearing some of the water with my gauntlet, but the key was at the bottom of the pool, and the water from the goddess’ hands was flowing right on top of it.

I drew my sword again. “Might be able to freeze it.” “Good way to break your magic sword.”

“You think the acid is that potent?”

He shrugged. “Just saying I wouldn’t risk losing a permanent magic item on an exam.”

There was wisdom in that. I waved the sword close to the water without touching it, hoping the aura of frost would be sufficient to freeze the liquid, but nothing visible happened.

I could feel the weapon’s aura, though. Not the chill consequence of its presence — the aura itself felt tangible in my mind, much like how I could briefly feel the mana in my dueling cane before it was released.

Why was that? I couldn’t feel the power from my demi-gauntlet or shield sigil while they were inactive. Was it because the sword’s aura was a passiveeffect and always on? Was it subtly drawing from my own mana at a rate too slow for me to detect, connecting me with the cold?I wouldn’t know without further testing or research, but at the moment, that wasn’t what was important. It gave me a new option.

I leveled the tip of the blade, putting it an inch from the waterfall’s edge, reached out into the aura... and shoved.

Snap.

The aura lashed out with a piercing thrust of rime that breached the waterfall. It left a blade-shaped wedge of ice frozen against the statue’s surface, the still-flowing water above splashing against it and forcing me to step back to avoid the droplets.

Now that was interesting.

“Hm.” Jin looked bemused. “I was not aware you could do that.” “New trick.” I smirked. “Time to get us a key. Take a few steps back?” He obliged.

I swung the sword this time, feeling the aura whip along with the arc of the weapon. As the weapon traveled alongside the waterfall, I pushed again. The water froze as aura cut deeply into it, leaving a crescent-shaped platform to mark the blade’s passage.

The newly-frozen section was more effective, but the water still struck the top of it and flowed across it into the pool below. Considering for a moment, I changed my approach, freezing water just where it appeared in the hands of the goddess next. The flow of water ceased. I thought I could hear the ice cracking in her hands, most likely the result of pressure building from water behind it.

That meant I didn’t have much time.

I froze the water directly around the key next, took a step back, and blasted the section at an angle using my gauntlet’s knockback function. The frozen key flew upward, just as I’d hoped, but fell back into the water before I could do anything about it. I had to repeat the process twice more until it flew entirely out of the pool.

I heard the sound of something rumbling above me, blinking as I turned my head upward. Jin was faster, shoving me forward before the cage clattered to the floor with a cacophonous crash.

Fortunately, both the key and I had landed outside. I pushed myself awkwardly to my feet.

“Thanks,” I said, turning back.

Jin was inside the cage, looking unamused. Oops.

All six torches were still lit, so re-lighting them to raise the cage wasn’t anoption. The key was still in a block of icy acid, and I didn’t know how long it would take to melt.

There didn’t seem to be any keyholes on the cage, though, anyway. “Any ideas on how we can get you out of there?”

“Can you see the mechanism that raises and lowers it?” He peered out through the bars.

I looked up, but there was nothing visible. I turned my attunement on, but there was still nothing in the air. It was apparently raised and lowered through spells that were only active when they were in use. I shook my head at him, turning the attunement back off.

My head swam for a moment as my sight returned to normal. I felt off somehow. I was probably overusing my mana; my right hand ached when I thought about it. Something else felt amiss too, though.

I dismissed that line of thought as unimportant. “Do you still have the return bell?” I asked instead.

“Ye—” He cut himself off. “Ah, I see. With Patrick incapacitated, how were you able to re-enter?”

“I just ran back to the door.”

He took out the bell and rang it, then vanished.

The bell itself dropped as he teleported, clattering noisily on the floor. I picked it up.

It took about a minute before he re-appeared in the room. “Patrick remains unconscious. There is no sign of the others,” he reported.

“Good. Hope they’re doing better than we are.” “Yes.”

I handed the return bell back to Jin and he accepted it wordlessly.

The ice around the key hadn’t melted. It occurred to me after a moment that I’d never seen the sword’s ice melt naturally. In fact, it seemed to get worse over time.

It couldn’t last forever, could it?The only way I’d seen the ice disappear before was from flame magic. “You wouldn’t happen to have any fire spells, would you?”

Jin shook his head. “I would not be able to tell you if I did.”

Cryptic as usual, but not unexpected.

“But I do have fire-starting supplies.”

Jin reached into his pouch, poured some of his... healing potion... on a rag and then set the rag on the floor. He withdrew a knife and a dark-colored stone of some kind, striking the stone with the metal to make sparks. The rag ignited a moment later, and he picked it up on the knife’s edge, and then dropped it on top of the ice block.

It took several seconds, but the ice melted enough to expose the key. Jin knelt down, carefully probing, and flicked the key with the edge of his knife. It flew out of the ice, skidding across the floor.

I walked over, kneeling down, but paused before picking it up. “Think the surface is still acidic?”

Jin nodded as he approached, pouring liquid from his flask over the key. “Yes, but washing it will probably be sufficient. I would advise you to use the gauntlet to pick it up.”

The inside of the gauntlet was only leather, but it was still a glove. Once the key had been washed, I picked it up. No obvious burning on the leather from contact. Good.

“Okay, now what do we do with this?”

Jin pointed at the two doors. “There are two visible exits, both with locks matching the color of the key. Each door has an inscription. The box is also inscribed, but it has no visible opening.”

I walked to the first door. In the greater lighting of all six torches, I could see words carved into the surface, much like on the tablet.

Only light can open the eyes of the faithless.

I frowned, moving to the next door.

Let fire purify the wicked.

I liked that message even less, but I turned to Jin. “So, fire room or light room next?”

He folded his hands in front of him, head slightly tilted. “You carry ice, which may prevail against fire,” he mused.

“But it’s possible fire is the requirement for that room, rather than what we’ll face,” I countered.

“Possible. But I doubt it.”

I nodded. His preference was obvious, and I didn’t have a good argument to try the other room first; we didn’t have any great sources of light or darkness, either.

I turned the key in the lock. The stone door slid into the floor, reminiscent of some of the ones I’d seen in the tower.

Nice touch. Lends authenticity.

The jet of fire that emerged from the doorway enveloped us both in an instant, crushing our shields to nothing. In a panicked instant, I reached out for the aura of the weapon at my side, spreading it across my skin.

When the flames faded, I was shivering, my skin glistening with ice. When I turned, Jin was already gone.

Annihilated, I realized, my heart pounding. Stay calm. It’s just a simulation. He’s fine. But this does mean I’m on my own now.

I stepped out of the doorway, not wanting to be caught by another errant blast of fire.

From an angle, I could still see where the fire had come from. A statue of the creature we’d just fought, stood directly across from the door. I could still feel the heat in the air and smell the acrid scent of the smoke it had left behind.

And I could see the glow forming in its open mouth, flames swirling and forming.

I stepped completely aside, watching as the blast flashed out the open door a moment later. It flooded the entrance for several seconds before receding again.

I glanced back into the room. The creature’s mouth was still open, a hint of flame already forming as it prepared another blast.

Looking from side-to-side, I saw... more statues. A dozen, at least, breathing their own blasts of flame at varying angles across the room.

And, even with only a moment to inspect, I could see gaps between those incinerating bursts of flame, and a door on the opposite side of the room.

I dodged back out of the way just as the next burst of flame leapt out the doorway.

A timing puzzle.

As the next flames receded, I was ready. I stepped in and to the left, swinging my head widely from side-to-side and confirming what I’d guessed while outside. There was a gap right here that no flaming breath would touch.

There were, however, statues staring directly at the spaces to my left and right — as well as the area directly in front of me.

In total, four statues on the opposite side of the room, two on the left, two on the right... and one at the far right corner on my side of the room, turned at a diagonal.

I winced, pressing against the wall as the next set of blasts seared the air at my right, then at my left a few moments later.

That revealed another important factor: they weren’t in sync. That was both good and bad.

If the flames were dividing the room roughly into a grid, I could figure out where I could safely step and when. The diagonal-facing statue was going to be the hardest part; it breathed just after the flames near the center of the roomlet up. That meant crossing that area was going to be extremely difficult.

My reflexes weren’t bad, but I didn’t trust my life to split-second timing. Even with the heat of the room, though, the aura of frost was numbing my skin dangerously... and that frost was real. And sadly, I didn’t know of any way to diminish the cold without disabling it entirely.

I pushed the frost aura away from myself, shivering in the aftermath. I couldn’t risk causing myself real harm to shield myself from illusionary heat.

Was there some other way I could use the frost? I drew the sword, noticing for the first time how severely my hand was shaking. That was no good.

I took the grip in both hands and swiped it in the air, pushing the aura outward as I’d done with the waterfall. A crescent-shaped blade of frost leapt from my swing, cresting through the air only to be melted by a blast of heat from one of the statues.

I tried a second time, timing it with the blasts. This time I managed to hit a statue with the icy projectile, but the ice-wave just cracked harmlessly across the statue’s surface.

Frowning, I sheathed the weapon.

I watched the timing on the statues. Could I make the run?The diagonal statue had another property I hadn’t picked up before: every three times the statues breathed their flames, the diagonal statue skipped one. A chance.

A deceptive chance.

I realized one critical flaw in my plan before I pushed myself to act. Even if I rushed for the door, ducking between fountains of flame, I didn’t have another key.

Where was it?I found it hanging from a vicious-looking hook in the middle of the room, high enough that I could just barely reach it if I jumped. Maybe.

It was, of course, right within a zone where the diagonal statue’s flames would burn.

I stared up at it, considering. In the distance, I heard the sound of a gong— once, twice, and a third time.

What was that supposed to mean? A time limit?I clenched and unclenched my hands, still shivering in spite of the flames licking the air around me.

Okay. Think. What’s the best route to getting the key and getting across? Teleporting, obviously. But I can’t do that. Or fly above the flames.

Could I jump from statue to statue?I glanced at them, then shook my head. Nope. Too far.

Maybe I could have blasted myself forward with the kinetic energy from my gauntlet, but it wasn’t made for transportation; that wasn’t a reliable option.

Maybe I could switch out and hope Marissa was outside? She could probably handle this... and the bell was lying on the ground where Jin had once been standing.

That was kind of depressing, actually.

Another gong sounded in the distance. Definitely a time limit. Which meant gambling on Marissa solving this for me probably wasn’t an option.

Okay, doing this.

I raised the demi-gauntlet, hand still shaking, and aimed at the key. I had to steady my right hand with the left before I fired.

The first surge of mana missed. It was a small target.

The second whipped the chain forward, hurling the key at exactly the angle I wanted — right off the hook and toward the exit door.

As soon as the next jet of flames dissipated, I ran.

Even moving at full speed, I barely made it to the next safe “square” on the grid before an incendiary blast singed the air behind me.

Then I waited, as patient as I could be with blasts of fire raging all around me. There was a tiny voice in my head screaming all the while. I don’t want to die.

It’s not real, I told myself, but the terror whimpered again all the same.

Another blast of flame. Another step forward, and then I was in the toughest spot. I waited for the diagonal flame-breather to go through a full cycle, just to be certain I knew when it would be off.

I’d need to wait for the next flame to start right in front of me, rush into the diagonal statue’s line of fire while it was inactive... and then wait an agonizing moment until the next one faded. Then I’d run.

It seemed like a good plan. A clear plan.

The flames leapt in front of me, then faded. This was the moment of truth. I rushed forward, finding that tiny safe spot, and waited in anguish,clenching my fists at the diagonal statue as it glared at me.

It didn’t breathe. I breathed deeply in response.

The next flames erupted in front of me, just as I’d expected, and I waited until they faded. As soon as they did, I ran into the safety of the next square.

Shivering and laughing with glee, I turned toward the diagonal statue, the danger that had passed — and saw that it was looking straight at me, a burning sphere forming in its mouth, seconds from activating.

It had turned.

The reshing statue turned.

There were flames all around me; I had nowhere to dodge. Instinctively, I drew on the sword’s power to shield me with frost. I knew it wouldn’t be enough.

I felt a jolt of unexpected agony as the flames washed over me and my senses faded to dust.

