CHAPTER XIX — BORROWED MEMORIES

My first order of business was to prepare for climbing the tower. That meant getting supplies.

I headed over to the Climber’s Court, trusting that Lars would offer me some sage advice to accompany his sometimes-absurd prices. It was evening by the time I arrived — hours after the attack — but I could still see smoke rising from buildings only a few streets down.

I hadn’t realized just how close the shop had been to the tower.

The Court hadn’t been hit directly by the Hero’s End, but the doors and walls were marked with huge gouges. A large chunk of the eastern wall was completely missing.

Through the crack, I could see Lars sweeping broken glass into a dust pan. His face was sunken into a deep frown of dejection, and a bright red wound was exposed across his left arm.

I couldn’t stand seeing him that miserable. I walked around to the front door, opening it.

Lars startled at the sound, reaching for a hatchet on his belt and drawing it in a swift motion. Fortunately, he recognized me before he threw the thing, his expression softening. “Corin. You shouldn’t be ‘ere! It’s not safe.”

I chuckled. “Oh, believe me, I know. I’ve actually got a story for you for a change. Or, I will when I get back.”

He gave me his fiercest frown. “Back? I don’t like the sound of that, lad.

What sort of nonsense are you up to now?”

I grinned. “It’s a bit of a secret. But, uh, hypothetically speaking... if I was going into the tower, what would you recommend that I bring?”

He set the broom and dust pan aside, folding his arms — which just gave me a closer look at his injured arm. I walked closer, slipping the ring off my finger and offering it to him. “Your arm’s cut up pretty good there. Put this onfor a bit. Regeneration ring.”

He accepted the ring, turning it over in his hands for a moment with a frown before slipping it onto the pinky finger of his injured arm. “This is a Citrine-level item, lad. Where’d you pick it up? You shouldn’t just be handing something this valuable out to anyone.”

“Uh, not exactly mine. I’m borrowing it from Professor Orden. Possibly forever, depending on how things go.”

He laughed. “Borrowing it forever, eh? Seems like a good deal. I suppose I’ll borrow it in turn, but not for quite as long. Maybe half as long.”

“Seems reasonable. So, suggestions?”

He looked down at me, narrowing his brows. “You’re serious.” I nodded gravely. “Completely serious.”

“Best suggestion? Don’t go until you’re at least Carnelian. You need a shroud to keep yourself safe in there.”

I tilted my head to the side. “A shroud? Isn’t that a Guardian thing?”

He waved a hand to show partial agreement. “Not quite. Everyone who hits Carnelian or above gets a shroud. You’re an Enchanter. That’s the aura you see when you look at them.”

“So, it’s just another name for an aura, then?”

“No, it’s more specific. There are lots of types of auras — you might have an aura of fire around you because of an item, for example. A shroud is your personal aura — it comes from mana leaking right out of you. That’s not a bad thing, though. It protects you, like a barrier that’s always on.”

That did sound useful — and it helped explain why powerful attuned were so resilient. Maybe that was how Keras survived being slammed into a pillar by Katashi?“Okay, and I presume the stronger the attuned, the stronger the shroud?” “Aye, and the more control you get over it. Guardians are specialists atusing their shroud, as you mentioned. That’s why even Quartz Guardians have one. They develop them earlier and learn more tricks, like focusing the shroud over a specific part of the body to punch someone really hard.”

I scratched my chin. “Good to know. What can higher level attuned do with their shroud?”

“All sorts of things. The most important is that Sunstones learn to suppress their shroud. That makes it so Enchanters like yourself and Diviners can’t tell how powerful they are at a glance. Terrible idea if you might get into a fight, since the shroud actually gets weaker. It’s not just hidden. Many powerful attuned keep their shroud suppressed most of the time to make it harder to gauge their strength.”

I nodded. That helped explain why I could never get a good read on someof the people I’d looked at, like Professor Orden or Derek. Orden could have easily been explained by using illusions — she was a Shadow after all — but Derek seemed combat focused. He was probably just hiding his power the same way that most nobles hid their hands with a glove.

Lars continued. “Beyond that? I’ve heard of Citrines extending their shroud to cover other people, or reshaping them the way a Guardian can from the beginning. Not sure what else they can do — never got past Sunstone myself.”

“Okay. Let’s assume I don’t have time to hit Carnelian - but I’ll try. What else should I bring?”

“A backpack. Food that’s easy to store. Water — ideally an item that will make water for you. Plan for a week. It usually takes two to three days to find an exit, but you want to be prepared for worse situations. Oh, and extra socks.”

I blinked. “Extra...socks?”

“You never can have too many extra socks. Don’t doubt me on this. You’ll regret it if you do.” He nodded sagely.

The wound on his arm was already starting to visibly glow and scab over— that ring worked faster than I’d expected. I’d definitely need that ring in the tower, too — presuming Orden didn’t take it away from me.

“Okay. Any particular magical items you’d recommend? Be direct with me — I’ll buy something from you if you say that I need it, presuming I can afford it.”

“I can give you some recommendations. What’s your price range?”

I’d saved up quite a bit over the last couple months by making my own supplies. I had about eighty silver on me — far more than I’d ever carried in the past, aside from when I’d bought the supplies needed for Sera’s summoning-enhancement gauntlet.

In a better situation, I would have used that money to buy supplies to make myself something — but I didn’t have time.

“I have eighty silver. I intend to spend as much of it as necessary here right now.”

Lars gave me a serious look, nodding slowly. “I’ll put together a few things for you.”

I reached out a hand. “Gimmie that broom, then we’ll look at items afterward.”

He reluctantly surrendered the tool, and I worked on finishing sweeping the glass into a manageable pile. After that, we swept it into a bag for disposal. There wasn’t much we could do about the wall, so I helped him drape a tapestry over the hole.

I left the shop with the ring back in my possession, ten silver in my pocket, and more than three hundred silver worth of items.

In exchange, I’d made him a promise— I’d be back to shop there again soon.

***Back at my apartment, I set down my newly-acquired items. It was time to take a full inventory and pack.

Of the options Lars had offered me, I’d picked out a single item that I considered essential: a real, functional return bell like the ones we’d used during our tests. According to him, it wouldn’t work in certain rooms in the tower — apparently they had varying degrees of protection against teleportation — but it would work in some of them.

I’d considered picking up something with more of a direct combat application or something to enhance my attunement, but honestly? Getting out of this with my friends and myself alive was my highest priority.

One important thing was that unlike the ones we’d used during the test, this return bell would require channeling a considerable amount of gray mana into it to activate.

This was good, in some respects. I didn’t want to ring the bell accidentally while I was walking and end up by myself outside. But it did mean that it might take an extra second or two to activate the item, and I knew that could be dangerous. I’d have to be ready for that.

The return bell came along with a second item - a metal rod that served as an anchor for the bell’s teleportation destination. I hadn’t seen anything like that during our tests, but presumably they’d had something similar built into the main room. My current plan was either to leave the pole in my room or to plant it just outside the tower. I’d probably talk to Professor Orden before deciding.

After I’d picked up the bell and rod, he’d “sold” me three more items that he considered essential — a flask that refilled itself with ordinary drinking water every four hours, a cloak that regulated the wearer’s body temperature, and a mana-powered lantern that generated heatless light.

They all sounded more like camping supplies to me than preparation for a dangerous journey in the tower, but when I considered that the average tower journey lasted days, it made a lot of sense. Moreover, the lantern would be handy in any pitch black rooms similar to the one we’d encountered in our first test.

Even accounting for his usually-inflated prices, I owed Lars quite a bit for practically forcing the things on me. If I made it out of this alive, I’d find a way to repay him eventually.

Aside from that, I’d picked up a large ordinary backpack. I stuffed the cloak inside along with the lantern.

After that, I packed a couple extra sets of clothes... and several extra pairs of socks, as Lars had insisted.

After that, enchanting supplies. I didn’t have a lot of gems left. Just a handful of Class 1 gray ones, a Class 1 mind gem, and the Class 2 universal gem. Better than nothing. I packed my engraving rod and my etching rod, just in case.

Finally, food. I attached a bedroll to the bottom of the backpack. I’d do without a sleeping bag or pillow. There wasn’t room for other large items.

The supplies I was more likely to need immediately went into my normal belt pouch. Those started with the book that put me in contact with the Voice of the Tower. I didn’t plan to show it off to the others, but I wanted it handy in case of an emergency.

I stuffed the demi-gauntlet in my side bag, along with my ten remaining silver coins. Finally, the bell, along with the anchor rod that went along with it. I really hoped I wouldn’t have to use it, but given my luck? It was probably more a question of when I’d need to evacuate.

After a bit of consideration, I put the self-refilling waterskin in my side pouch, and then stuffed the waterskin containing the enchanted water I’d taken from the tower in my backpack. I did not want to mix those up.

I had two shield sigils now. The school-issued one went on my uniform as usual, and the phoenix sigil I’d made for myself went onto my pants to prevent them from interfering with each other.

I’d considered making a third, but that ran a much greater risk of interfering with all three. I’d probably get that sorted out eventually, but I didn’t have time to experiment.

I kept the ring of regeneration on. I’d need to ask Orden about how long it was safe to use it.

While I was thinking about the ring, I inspected the runes on it. They were etched on the inside of the band; it looked like delicate work. The ring had to be made of some kind of rare material to hold that amount of mana in such a small object.

Most of the runes weren’t ones I was familiar with, so I looked them up. There were two fairly standard life runes: one for the actual healing effect, and another to cause the ring to naturally recharge. Next to them, a life mana capacity rune to prevent the recharging rune from overflowing it.

Another couple runes required mental mana. I presumed one was for detecting the user’s injuries. I recognized the one next to it, which was designed to recharge the mental mana required for the other rune. The next one was probably a mental mana capacity rune, but it was a slightly different design from the one I usually used — probably because it was for a higher capacity.

The last one I recognized even more easily: a standard activation rune that required the user to channel gray mana into it. Unlike the variant used on dueling canes, this required the mana to come from the person wearing the ring.

All in all, it was simple enough to make, it just required too much mana for me to fabricate one on my own. I also didn’t have any life mana crystals.

After finishing my research on the ring, I took my mana watch, too. I never left home without it these days.

I checked my mana before putting the watch away. 48/48. Apparently, yesterday’s exertions had helped me improve a bit. I was still a ways off from Carnelian, though. Most people seemed to reach Carnelian at around 60 mana. I’d have to survive without a shroud for a while longer.

Before leaving, I briefly unpacked my book to write a quick message to the Voice of the Tower. I didn’t know when I’d get another chance.

Dear Voice of the Tower,I’m preparing to head back to the tower along with Professor Orden.

If we’re successful, we’ll be bringing Vera along with us. Katashi has asked me to turn her over to him, and if I fail to do so, he’ll be sending a stronger attack against the city.

In order to ensure the safety of the city, I must succeed.

Any assistance you could provide would be greatly appreciated. If nothing else, please make sure someone else succeeds if I fail.

Best, CorinFinally, I had to pick which sword to take with me. Selys-Lyann was tempting, since it was clearly the more powerful and versatile weapon — but it did have that nasty downside of nearly killing me on occasion.

My self-enchanted sword was much safer to use, but I didn’t know if it would be enough to handle the strongest monsters we might run into.

So, I brought both.

I wasn’t planning to wield them both at the same time, of course. I was nowhere near dexterous enough for that. I’d just hand one or the other off to Sera or Jin, since they didn’t have any magical weapons.

Well, that wasn’t completely accurate. I’d enchanted Jin’s revolvers, so they were technically magical weapons. But they had limited ammunition, so he might still want the sword.

I felt a little awkward walking to the Divinatory with two scabbards bouncing on my hips. I’d need to get rid of one of these things sooner, rather than later.

***As I approached the Divinatory, Jin opened the door from inside and waved for me to enter.

I blinked. Had I told him what time I was heading over here? I was pretty sure I hadn’t.

Maybe his real attunement was Diviner, or something similar from Dalenos. I think they had one called “Seer”, maybe? Or “Oracle”? Something like that.

It didn’t matter at the moment.

Having Jin present was probably going to be a benefit. He’d provide me with another set of eyes to search and another voice to ask questions.

I nodded to him and he silently fell into step behind me. We headed inside.

I’d been in the Divinatory before, but I’d never been back to the archives.

Fortunately, Jin seemed to know the way. I waved at a few other students and faculty as we headed toward the back of the building.

The other people present seemed exhausted and a little dazed. I didn’t blame them, considering the events of the day before. I hadn’t slept well, either.

“This is it.” Jin pointed at a double-door with a single large lock at the back of the facility. I inserted the key, turning it and sliding the doors open.

The archive was a room of clinical whites and sterile grays. It was structured like a library, with dozens of rows of long shelves, but only a few of them contained books. Most of the shelves were stacked to near-overflow with boxes of file folders, and a few other shelves carried fist-sized memory crystals.

The room’s most unusual feature, however, was the shimmering blue- skinned woman hovering over a platform in the center. Aside from the blue skin, she looked mostly human. She had long brown hair and wore a tailored suit that was a shade darker than her skin.

The platform was marked with numerous runes, some more familiar than others. I thought it was a barrier at a first glance, but it took me a moment to realize it wasn’t to keep danger out.

It was to keep her inside.

She turned toward us as we entered, grinning cheerfully and waving. “Ooh, new visitors! Come in, come in!”

I turned to Jin, giving him a confused glance. He shrugged and we steppedin.

I waved at the trapped woman. “Uh, hello. I’m Corin.”

She blinked, her eyes turning pure white when she reopened them. After afew moments of staring, her pupils slowly reappeared. The effect was...disconcerting. “Corin Cadence. It’s a pleasure to meet you. I’m Researcher 437-C. How can I be of service today?”

I took a step closer, tilting my head to the side. “Are you trapped in there?”

She laughed — or at least, I thought she did. The sound was too high pitched to be human, somewhere in between a chuckle and some kind of exotic bird call. “No, no, silly. This...” She knelt and tapped the platform. “Provides me with mana. It’s powered by the crystals in the sides, so please don’t touch those!”

Jin stepped forward. “Is that Caelish technology? Are you some kind of automaton?”

She turned toward Jin, a confused expression on her face. “Oh, hello. I barely noticed you there! Uh, yes to your first question, no to the second. I’mwhat you would call a summoned monster... Although I don’t really like the second part. A little cruel, don’t you think?”

Jin gave a noncommittal grunt in reply.

“I agree,” I chimed in. “You’re intelligent, and you don’t seem particularly monstrous. Is there a term you’d prefer? Summoned person, perhaps?”

She raised a finger to her lips. “I hadn’t really thought about it. Maybe next time you visit, I’ll have an answer for you!”

I nodded. “In the meantime, I could use some help. I take it you oversee this facility?”

“Sure do! I know it backwards and forwards. Well, the center part, at least.” She grinned. “The rest, a little less, but still pretty well.”

I waved at the platform. “Is that because you can’t leave the middle?”

“I can, but only when I have an external power source. Usually, that means when my Summoner is here to provide me with mana. Some other forms of mana can keep me stable for a time, but it’s usually safest for me to stay here.”

I scratched my chin. “Just how long have you been here?”

“Oh, I’ve been working at this facility for about three years now. It’s quite nice!”

I blinked. I’d never heard of a summoned...person being summoned for anywhere near that long. Most summons only lasted for minutes to hours, as far as I could tell. “That’s very impressive. I’ve never heard of anyone like you. Can I ask where you’re from?”

She beamed, stretching her arms. “Weeeeell, that’s a bit of a long story. Researchers are core elements for the function of each of the Shifting Spires. Normally, we don’t come in contact with people... but someone was clever enough to find us, and made a pact with me! Or, original me, anyway.”

“I don’t suppose you could tell me where they found you, or who your Summoner is?”

She shook her head.

“Okay,” I continued. “What should we call you?”

“Oh, just Researcher is fine. That’s what everyone calls me. People keep offering to let me pick a name, but I don’t really see a point. Researcher describes my function accurately.”

I nodded. I could see the logic there. “Okay, Researcher. As it happens, we’re here to do some research.”

“Perfect!” She clasped her hands together. “How can I help you?”

“Well, I suppose we should start by looking for anything regarding Keras Selyrian.”

Her eyes flashed white again. “Keras Selyrian. Records and memory crystals are in row 14-F, third shelf, toward the center.” She waved to her right. “It’s over here, three shelfs down from where I’m standing.”

“Thanks.” I followed her directions, walking past row after row of boxes. Each box had a slat beneath it with a brief description of the contents. It looked like it’d been organized alphabetically by the first word. I found “Keras Seleryan” between “Keldyn Aendys” and “Kerran Vallir”.

I picked up the box eagerly. It was completely empty.

I went back to Researcher. “The box is empty. Do people usually take things out of here?”

Her eyes widened for a moment. “No one is supposed to remove anything from the archive without authorization. There wasn’t any given to take the files on Keras.”

Jin raised an eyebrow. “You’re sure of that?”

She turned toward him, blowing a hair out of the way of her mouth before speaking. “Uh, yes. If someone had given permission, they’d have to tell me about it. And I’m a Researcher. I have perfect recall of everything I’ve ever experienced.”

An eidetic memory? Or something even more advanced? Hrm. That could be useful.

“Do you recall anyone else looking for his files, then?”

She nodded. “Yes, several people have. But not for several months now.”

Interesting. They could have been stolen a while ago, then. “Who was the last person you remember taking a look at information on Keras?”

She frowned. “I’m afraid I’m not authorized to answer that question.” Of course not. That’d be far too easy.

I glanced at Jin. He shook his head.

Okay, it wasn’t Jin. Fair enough.

Besides, I returned the memory crystal he’d taken. That should be here even if Jin was the one that took everything else. That means someone took everything at some point after I returned the crystal.

I sighed. “Okay. We can check some other things, then.” Researcher perked right back up. “Excellent! What else?” “How about Vera Corrington?”

Researcher pointed to her right again. “Further down. Row 22-D. No memory crystals on her, but we do have a few files.”

I found her files without incident. Well, some files, anyway. I had no way of knowing if there had been others that might have been stolen at some point. I handed half the stack to Jin and we walked back to Researcher.

“Anywhere we can sit to look at these?”

“Toward the back of the room, left corner.”

We followed her instructions, found chairs, and sat.

The first thing I found was a copy of a Caelford Passport. In specific, a Diplomatic Passport indicating she was here in Valia on government business. I wondered why we had a copy of it here. Maybe this Divinatory served as a general information repository for the whole city?That document didn’t have anything specific on why she was there, but there were several other type-written pages in the folder.

One of them was a copy of her documentation for entering the Serpent’s Tower. Glancing over that was much more enlightening.

Name: Vera CorringtonAge: 26Ethnicity: CaelfordAttunements: AnalystReason for Entering Tower: Accompanying multi-national climber force for confidential research: Code Q-STN.

There was a bit more info on there, but nothing nearly as interesting as her reason for going in there. I’d have to see if I could find out more about that research project.

I showed Jin that page. He just said, “Interesting,” and went back to his own reading.

I dug a little further, finding a list of the people who had accompanied her into the tower. Lawrence Gold, Rochelle Gold, Carter Bishop, Echion Valden, and one name that I actually recognized: Elora Theas.

That’s the Summoner that was feuding with Derek, and also the same Theas that was in the Council of Lords with my mother. Could she be the one who’s preventing Vera from being arrested? If she’s a council member, she’d probably have sufficient influence.

House Theas was an old family. They were one of the founding families of the city, much like House Hartian. I didn’t know how far their influence extended, but either she or one of her relatives was definitely a council member.

I pointed her out to Jin. He seemed more interested this time. “If House Theas is involved with whatever this research was, you’re going to be in for some trouble.”

I rubbed my temples. “More than I’m already in?”

“You’d be surprised. Still, we should dig into this more. I haven’t found anything of interest in this pile. I’ll go see if I can find anything on EloraTheas or that code name.”

I nodded, continuing to read more about Vera. I found references to her coming into the city with her brother — Aloras — so I’d been right on that regard.

More references to that secret project, but nothing concrete on what it was about, or if she had any sort of sponsors.

Jin sat back down a few minutes later with a new stack of papers. “Researcher informed me that we’re not authorized to know about that secret project, so she couldn’t help. She did point me at the files on Elora Theas, though.”

We dug through those. Elora Theas was a Lorian Heights graduate and long-time climber. There were records of dozens of visits she’d made to the Serpent Spire, as well as at records of her leaving the country to visit other spires. That meant she might have foreign attunements in addition to local ones.

Derek had accompanied her in many of the tower visits with earlier dates. Those seemed to have stopped... right before the time Elora had entered the tower with Vera.

Now that was interesting.

I’d known they had some sort of falling out. Could it have been directly connected to whatever this secret project was?I’d have to tell Professor Orden about this; it seemed like a potentially significant lead.

I did have one final thing to look into before we left, though.

I returned the files that I’d been reading through to their proper places and walked back to Researcher. “Can you direct me to any files on Tristan Cadence?”

She grinned. “Of course! They’d be in Row 20-A.” I withdrew the single file with a shaking hand.

Name: Tristan CadenceAge: 17Ethnicity: ValiaAttunements: NoneReason for Entering Tower: JudgmentAnd I read further.

Date of Entrance: 4-13-55 Date of Exit: Not Applicable Status: Presumed DeceasedIt hurt to see the words, even though they didn’t differ in any way from what I’d expected.

There were other pages in the file — old records from his schools, a record of his pre-Judgment practice test...which had been a rousing success.

He’d been brilliant, from everything I could see. Physically fit, amazing grades in all of his classes.

How had he failed?There were no hints here. No signs of any conspiracy. No records pointing at secret projects or hidden agendas.

Just another ordinary seventeen year old, lost to the tower.

I set the files back in the box and walked back to Jin. “Let’s go.” He set his own papers down. “I did find something else, actually.” I raised an eyebrow. “Oh?”

“One of the records on Elora referenced her leaving an item at this facility for research. Could be connected to this secret project.”

I grinned. “Nice find. What is it?”

“Files called it the Jaden Box. Let’s go ask Researcher about it.” We put Jin’s files back and moved back to the center of the room.

Researcher was floating in a cross-legged sitting position, and rotated toward us as we approached. “Oh, hello again! I trust you found everything you needed?”

Jin nodded. “For the most part, although I did find an unusual reference.

What can you tell us about the Jaden Box?”

Researcher’s eyes did the creepy white thing again. “Jaden Box. Attributed to Wrynn Jaden, sorceress of the Pre-Attunement Period. Artifact demonstrates remarkable storage and summoning capabilities beyond the scale of all other known items. Deposited here by Elora Theas on 6-12-51. Research in progress.”

Jin nodded. “Is the box connected to this secret research project Q-STN?”

Researcher shook her head. “Unrelated. The box is simply a powerful item. It is not classified as secret.”

“What does it do, exactly?” Jin continued.

“The box is capable of storing items that appear to be too large to fit inside an extra-planar space. In addition, when an object is placed inside and a specific command word is used, it is capable of performing a summoning spell that will attempt to summon the person connected to the object.”

My eyes widened. “What are the restrictions on that?”

Researcher turned to me. “No known distance limitations. This summoning effect appears to be capable of bypassing most, if not all, anti-teleportation limitations. Lead Researcher Orden has placed an additional external seal on the box to prevent reckless tests, such as attempting to summon visages, which she deemed to have potentially catastrophic consequences.”

No distance limitations.

Could I summon Tristan with it?I’d need an item strongly connected to him. I had a few things in my room that had belonged to him, but I wouldn’t want to risk the chance they’d fail. I was confident I could find something at home, though. Maybe even a brush that still had some of his hair?It sounded so...easy. So much easier than trying to climb to the top of the tower.

Would it work if he was dead?I’d need to find out more about this.

Researcher had mentioned Lead Researcher Orden, meaning Professor Orden was studying it.

I’d seen the box before. It had been in her drawer, and I’d marked down the few runes I could remember.

I scratched my chin. “Is the Jaden Box in this facility right now?”

Researcher nodded. “Yes, although access to the item is restricted to members of Lead Researcher Orden’s team.”

I raised the key that Orden gave me. “As it happens, we work for Professor Orden.”

Not strictly a lie, but I felt a little bad for the deception.

Jin gave me a raised eyebrow, but Researcher just beamed at me. “Of course! It’s in a box labeled Lyras Orden on row 15-C. Be advised to follow all of the instructions with the attached documentation. Also, the box is inside a safe. The safe code is 13-9-63.”

Sorry, Professor Orden. You were the one who encouraged me to break in here and take what I needed.

I found the box, Jin following close behind me. “Are you certain this is wise?”

I glanced back at him. “No, but this could give us a considerable amount of safety if things go badly. For example, if we step into the tower and we can’t find Katashi, maybe we could find something connected to him and use this to summon him.”

Jin nodded. “I see the logic, but we should save that for a last resort. It is clear that using the box on a visage could have dangerous consequences.”

“Orden should have a better idea of how safe it would be. We can ask her if things get desperate enough that the box seems necessary. For the moment,we’ll be discrete.”

He put a hand over his forehead. “That’s part of the problem. You don’t think she’s going to notice you took it?”

I shrugged. “I’ve got so much magic stuff at this point that I doubt she’ll notice the aura on it standing out. I’ll only take it out in emergencies. If she does figure out that I took it, I’ll just refer back to her earlier desire for Whisper candidates to show initiative.”

Jin sighed. “Fine. But we’re putting it back when we’re done.” That was just vague enough that I could agree to it. “Sure.”

We found a safe inside the box, along with research notes, just as Researcher had indicated. I skimmed through the notes first.

Jaden BoxObject Classification: Artifact, MiscellaneousAttunement Level: Unknown; exhibits properties that exceed Emerald capabilitiesDescription: The Jaden Box is believed to be a creation of the legendary sorceress Wrynn Jaden. It demonstrates forms of Pre-Attunement Period sorcery that cannot be easily duplicated in the modern period. To date, we have discovered three of the box’s functions.

First, if the word “Store” is spoken aloud while in physical contact with the box, and followed by another word or short phrase that describes the object, any object placed inside the box within the next ten second period will be transported to an extra-planar space.

When the box is open and the command, “Retrieve” is given, followed by a phrase corresponding to an item that has been stored, the stored item will be teleported out of the extra-planar space and appear directly above the box. Fortunately, large objects will be shunted out of the way if there are people in the space above the box; this has saved more than one researcher from being inadvertently killed by teleportation fragmentation.

There are some restrictions on what can be stored; see research document ENX-4.

The third function of the box is the most dangerous and thus additional limitations have been placed on the box through the creation of an outer shell (see shell diagram). When an item is placed inside the box and is not stored in the extra-planar space, the command “Summon” can be used, followed by the name of an individual with a strong connection to the item. For example, a vial of Professor Lyras Orden’s blood was successfully used to summon her from the base of the Serpent Spire to the research laboratory.

Early studies indicate that the connection utilized by the box to summonan individual appears to be a mana signature. This means that any object that stores some of the mana of an individual, such as magical items created by the individual, should potentially be usable as a summoning focus.

Studies on this object have been restricted for two reasons. One, the unclear limitations have been a cause for concern that a researcher could inadvertently summon a powerful entity that may take issue with being summoned (e.g. one of the visages).

The second reason is that the summoning spell consumes a vast amount of air and transference mana; in specific, we approximate that the discharge is roughly twenty thousand mana of each type.

While the box does recharge its mana over time, it does so at a rate consistent with standard Sunstone-level items, regaining approximately one hundred mana per day. Thus, the summoning effect can only be used roughly once every two hundred days.

I wasn’t able to analyze everything about the box, but I was able to sense the mana within it. There was a lot. Thousands at least. I tried checking it with my mana watch, but it didn’t register anything. The watch wasn’t designed to interact with other items, and even if it was, this was a strange enough object that it might not have worked either way.

More importantly, I was able to detect that the box wasn’t currently recharging. That meant it already had a full charge of mana and could be used at any time.

I scanned over the rest of the research. The diagrams of the runes were fascinating — I’d want to learn more about them later — but for now, I didn’t have time. I was supposed to be meeting Professor Orden outside shortly.

The limitations on the box meant that I wasn’t going to be able to pick up just any old thing that Tristan had owned and throw it in there to summon him. I was already thinking of options, though. If hair from a brush didn’t work, maybe one of my parents had kept some of his baby teeth?I’d find something. This was the best lead I’d ever found.

I wanted desperately to drop everything and pursue it immediately, but first, I had people to save. Tristan wouldn’t forgive me if I ran home and summoned him if it meant risking other lives — possibly thousands of lives— in the process.

The safe combination worked. I pocketed the Jaden Box. It was time to go meet with Professor Orden.

***Professor Orden was waiting outside when Jin and I left the Divinatory. She was a little early, which wasn’t a huge surprise. Her company, on theother hand, was unexpected.

Derek Hartigan stood to her right side, a heavy backpack resting at his feet.

I glanced to him, then back to Orden. “What’s this?”

Derek grinned, reaching down with a hand to heft his pack over a shoulder. “Looks like you’re going to get one more chance to see me shine.”

I waved my hands in frantic dismissal. “No, no. Not happening. Where’s Teft?”

Orden rolled her eyes. “Not coming. He sends his regards, but the vice chancellor forbade him from coming with us. Apparently, he’s dealing with internal mana burns from the last time he went with you.”

I winced, remembering Teft blocking the shockwave from the Hero’s End.

That single attack had forced him to overuse his mana enough to cause internal burns? That’s...absurd. Just how powerful is that monster?I sighed. “Fine. I hope he recovers soon. But shouldn’t we be bringing another professor along?”

Derek grimaced. “Hey, I get that you’re angry about that whole Survival Match bit—”

I glared at him. “You could have gotten Sera seriously hurt.”

He raised his hands defensively. “I would have made sure she was safe, believe me. Would have jumped straight back into the arena if she was in real danger, rules or no. I apologize. I should have been clearer about the situation up front.”

I narrowed my eyes. “I’m not the one who you need to apologize to.”

He nodded. “Of course. I’ll apologize to Sera when I see her. But let me do something more than that. I’ll make it up to you both. I put her in danger once, minimal as it might have been — but this time, I’ll keep you safe.”

I clenched and unclenched a hand in the air. “I appreciate the effort, but I still fail to see why you’re a better option than bringing another professor along.”

Derek glanced from side to side, his expression turning more serious than I’d seen it. “Look at me for a second. Really look.”

I knew what he meant. I shifted my attunement on.

He had a light red shroud, a standard aura for a Carnelian...until it began to brighten.

First, to orange.

Then, as the red burned entirely away, to yellow.

And, as my eyes widened, a tinge of blue mingled into the yellow, forming green.

Emerald. Derek was an Emerald.

I took in a deep breath.

For the first time, I could see why he’d been so arrogant about being able to handle the Survival Match alone. He had the strongest aura of any human I’d ever seen.

That was not as reassuring as it should have been.

I’d just seen his former partner’s name on the list of people who had gone into the tower with Vera.

Was that incident why they were feuding? Did Derek know something?Was he involved?He hadn’t actually been one of the ones on the list to go into the tower himself...but then again, there was nothing that would have prevented him from going in just a bit earlier or later.

This was important, but I couldn’t think of an easy excuse to slip back into the archives to research him. I should have done it the moment Elora’s name had come up, but I hadn’t thought he’d be quite this closely involved.

I closed my eyes, disabling my attunement. “I can see what you mean.” “Keep that to yourself, please. A good number of people already know,but I try not to draw too much attention.”

I nodded, my eyes reopening. I could see why keeping that degree of power secret was a big deal. It could draw a lot of unwanted attention, and given how powerful Emeralds were, I suspected they might be considered military assets.

That also raised the question of whether or not Derek was involved with whoever had been talking to Katashi before and keeping Vera’s location concealed.

I had a few options at this point and I didn’t like any of them.

I reopened my eyes. “I’ll be willing to take you along if Sera doesn’t have an objection. Let me talk to her about it privately first.”

Professor Orden folded her arms. “We don’t have time for distractions. Derek is, whether I like it or not, our best chance at completing this assignment safely.”

“We need to pick Sera up before we go confront Vera in either case. Can you teleport us to her room? I’ll make the conversation quick.”

“Fine. What dorm is she in?”

“Tortoise Female #14.” I stepped in closer, formulating the first bits of a plan.

This was going to more complicated than I hoped.

We formed a circle, and once again, my head swam as Orden teleportedus.

At least I didn’t have a concussion this time.

***Sera opened the door to her room. I stepped inside. The others were all standing outside the building, idly chatting. Or maybe plotting my doom. Possibly both.

I raised a finger in a gesture for Sera to be quiet, then set down my backpack and withdrew my etching rod.

As she watched with a raised eyebrow, I channeled a bit of mana into the rod and carved a noise-dampening rune into the door. A bit of gray mana, a bit of transference mana, and the rune was completed.

I didn’t bother writing more runes to set the rune to recharge. I didn’t want to waste the time or mana. I put the etching rod back, more confident now that it would be extraordinarily difficult to hear our conversation outside.

I nodded to Sera. “We can talk now.”

She folded her arms. “Can we start by discussing how much you owe me for wrecking my door?”

I chuckled. “I’ll get it fixed for you when this is all over. But we need to talk.”

Sera tilted her head to the side. “I’d gathered that from the fact that you look like you just found a group of assassins in your breakfast.”

I nodded sagely. “Delicious, but suspicious.”

Sera’s lips twisted into a half-smirk. “That rhyme was a little weak, but I’ll give you credit for effort.”

“Weak? I’d like to see you do better.”

She raised a finger to her chin. “They were vicious and ambitious, but through a turn of fate capricious, one malicious assassin proved seditious, slaying the others in my dishes. Thereafter I discovered they were delicious, and moreover, nutritious.”

...

“You win this round, Sera.”

She bowed at the waist. “Your acknowledgment is judicious.”

I rolled my eyes. “That one was a bit of a stretch. But seriously, we need to talk.”

Sera sat down on her bed next to a large backpack of her own. “Okay, so talk.”

“Teft isn’t coming. Apparently, he’s too badly hurt from exerting himself on our last little mission. They sent Derek Hartigan instead.”

Sera shrugged. “Okay.”

I blinked. “You don’t care?”

“Eh, I don’t appreciate how little information he gave me before dragging me into that whole Survival Match thing, but it was still fun. And he’sobviously a fighter. We could use someone who knows how to use a sword. No offense.”

I nodded. “None taken. That reminds me.” I unbuckled my belt, taking both scabbards off it. “I brought two. You can pick one if you want one.”

“Oh, Patrick is going to be so jealous.” I blinked. “Why?”

“You didn’t notice? He’s been staring dreamily at your swords for months! He’s obsessed with those things.”

I winced. I really hadn’t been paying enough attention to what my friends were interested in. Now that Patrick was my retainer, I needed to make more of an effort to understand him. “Okay. I’ll definitely need to get him an enchanted sword sometime.”

I shook my head. “In the meantime, though, we’ve got more important matters to discuss. When Jin and I looked into Vera, we found out that Elora Theas — Derek’s former beau — was one of the people who went into the tower with Vera. It’s very likely she’s connected with all this nonsense, which makes it possible that Derek is also connected.”

Sera leaned over, picking up Selys-Lyann and testing the weight, then picked up my other sword and did the same. “And you’re worried he’s going to stab us in the back? Is that it?”

“Yeah. And he’s Emerald, Sera.”

She set the sword down at that, staring at me. “You’re sure?”

I nodded. “Saw his shroud with my attunement. He’s been suppressing it.” Sera’s hands clenched and unclenched in the air. It was a familiar gesture.

I did the same thing when I was stressed. I hadn’t realized she shared the habit. “That makes this rather awkward.”

I nodded. “Yeah. I told him that he could come along if you were okay with it. So, we’ve got an excuse if you want to act more angry about the whole arena thing...”

She shook her head. “No. I think we should keep him close, even if we have suspicions. If we tell him off, he’s free to wreak havoc out of sight. Maybe he goes and gets rid of Vera before we even reach her. Or, if he’s connected to Tenjin’s disappearance, he could even go move Tenjin while we go in the tower — or worse...”

I nodded. “I understand the idea of keeping an eye on him, but if he turns on us in the tower, there’s really nothing we could do against an Emerald. Unless you’re holding out on me. That thing you did with Patrick was a pretty impressive trick.”

Sera grinned. “It was. We’ve been practicing for weeks. Cooperative spells are much stronger than anything we can manage alone.”

“How’d he even help you? I’ve heard of cooperative spells, but wasn’t that an ice spell?”

“Ice and air. Elementalists can cast air spells. So, he supplied the air mana, freeing me up to use all my mana for ice. We pushed as much power as we could into that one spell. But even then, that wouldn’t even be Citrine-class. We couldn’t scratch an Emerald, and I couldn’t cast that spell alone.”

Hrm.

I pointed at Selys-Lyann. “Could you draw mana from an item? Selyss- Lyann has an ice aura.”

She frowned. “I’ve got a limited degree of ability to work with ice from my bond... maybe I could do something with it. Can’t promise it would be as impressive as what Patrick and I could pull off together, but it might be better than what I can do on my own.”

“Okay. You should take that sword, then, provided you don’t mind the curse.”

“Curse?”

“Shopkeeper told me that it’s cursed so that anyone who wields it dies.

Probably just a ridiculous legend.”

Sera stared at the sword, then looked back at me. “...you’ve been using a cursed sword this whole time?”

I chuckled. “I don’t think the curse is real. But if you’re worried about it, I can hold onto the sword.”

She picked the sword up. “I’m not as trusting as you are, but if there is a curse... I’ll beat it.”

I grinned. “Okay. So, we’re taking Derek?”

She nodded. “Yeah. Let’s hope we don’t regret it.”

We finished packing Sera’s gear and headed outside to meet the others. Derek delivered on his promised apology and Sera accepted.

It might have been my imagination, but I got the impression he looked just as suspicious of us as we were of him.

***One more teleport. My stomach lurched as we arrived outside Corrington Carriages.

Derek looked at Professor Orden. “We’re sure she’s in there?”

The professor nodded. “I just scried for her minutes ago. She’ll be in here.”

As I recovered, I realized everyone was looking at me. “What?” Professor Orden looked at me. “Go on in, Corin. This part is all you.” “You’re joking.”

Orden gestured to the door. “You’re the one she’s going to recognize. Youmight be able to talk her into coming along with us peacefully. If anything goes wrong, just give us the signal.”

I frowned. “What signal?” “Scream loudly.”

I sighed, walking over to the door of the shop. To my surprise — and relief — Jin fell into step beside me. No one commented on it and I wasn’t going to complain.

From the sign on the door, we were arriving during normal business hours, so I didn’t bother knocking. I just opened the door.

The inside of the building was well-lit and doubly well organized. I was shocked to see four complete automobiles in a perfect line, each painted a different color with a small sign in front of it.

Right near the entrance, a dark-skinned young man I didn’t recognize sat at a desk, looking over paperwork. Toward the back of the room, I could see another line of automobiles, but unfinished and unpainted. From the screeching noise coming from the one on the far right, I could tell someone was working on the carriage with some kind of noisy tool, but I couldn’t see them.

I stepped up to the desk. There were chairs on my side for a visitor, but I didn’t take a seat.

The man behind the desk looked up at me. “Good day, sir. Do you have an appointment?”

Ah, a secretary. Fair enough. He’s probably another student like me, looking to make a bit of spending money.

I shook my head. “No, I’m sorry. Just here to visit someone.” “Oh, who?”

Well, I wasn’t exactly planning to tell the whole world this, but... “Vera Corrington. Is she here?”

He nodded immediately and I breathed a sigh of relief. “Yeah, lemme go get her for you. Don’t touch anything. Seriously. Aloras will murder you.”

I nodded, glancing at Jin. He shrugged at me. We waited.

The student headed to the back of the room, and that grinding noise I’d been hearing paused after I heard a few hushed words of conversation.

A moment later, Vera pushed herself out from under the automobile, setting down a long rod that I wasn’t familiar with. She was too far away for me to get a good look at the runes on the side.

Vera’s eyes widened when she saw me. She glanced from side-to-side, searching, before walking over with the secretary at her side.

I put my hands up in a gesture of peace. “Can we talk?”

The secretary glanced at me, then back to Vera. “This guy bothering you, Vera? He must have been able to tell that she looked nervous.

Vera shook her head. “No... I know Corin. Was just surprised to see him here.”

I nodded. “I’ve got something important to talk to you about, Vera.

Related to the last time we saw each other.”

Vera sighed. “I should have known it’d come to this eventually.” She turned to the secretary. “John, go tell Aloras that Corin is here, then take the rest of the day off. We need to talk privately.”

John blinked. “If you say so?”

“I do. Aloras should be in the back.”

John nodded and headed toward a back room.

Vera folded her arms once John was out of sight. “Look, I’m sorry for how things ended, but I needed to make sure I got Echion out of there in one piece. You seemed nice, but I didn’t know you or your motives. I still don’t.”

She probably left me behind as a distraction for Katashi. And maybe to buy more time to get further into the city without being reported to the authorities. I wouldn’t have done the same, but she didn’t actually hurt me. And I can’t blame her for distrusting a stranger.

I shrugged in response to her half-hearted apology. “I’m not here about that. We’ve got bigger things to worry about. Give me a second.”

I removed my etching rod and began carving a rune in her door. “What are you doing? You’re ruining the wood!”

Oh, maybe I should have explained first.

I finished carving the rune, noticing Jin nod out of the corner of my eye, then turned back to Vera.

“Noise-dampening rune. We really don’t want people to hear us. Uh, aside from Jin here. Jin, this is Vera. Vera, Jin.”

Vera sighed. “Fine, fine. Nice to meet you, Jin. What’s this all about?”

I put my rod away, and then slipped off my glove to show her the sigil of Katashi on my right hand. “Katashi has charged me with bringing you to him within the next week, otherwise he’s going to wreck the city.”

Vera reached down for something.

Jin moved faster, a pistol appearing in his hand and pressed up against her chest before I could react. “Don’t even think about it.”

Vera sucked in a sharp breath, putting up her hands in surrender. “I... I can’t go back there. You don’t understand. It’s not just about me.”

I took a moment to process what had just happened, then moved behind Vera and removed the dueling cane from her belt.

My old dueling cane, in fact. I looped it onto my own belt.

“You can lower the gun, Jin. Thank you.” He lowered the weapon. “If you are certain.”

I turned back to Vera. “I don’t want this to end in bloodshed, Vera. If there’s something I don’t understand, make me understand. I’m willing to listen to your side of things, but one way or another, we need Katashi to be satisfied or he’s going burn this place to the ground.”

She sighed again. “Can I put my hands down?”

Jin stepped forward, nearly eye-to-eye with her. “Reach for another weapon and you lose a hand.”

Vera glowered at him. “I don’t have any other weapons.” “Good,” Jin replied simply.

Vera lowered her arms and leaned up against a nearby wall. “How much do you know?”

I rolled my eyes. “About seventeen years’ worth, aside from what I’ve forgotten. Can you be more specific?”

“About what really happened in the tower.”

I scratched my chin. “I’ve pieced together a fair bit. You went in the tower with a mixed group. Some people from Caelford, some locals. Something bad obviously happened, and you ended up in that prison with the kid.”

“Echion,” she replied. “He’s... more than just a child.”

I folded my arms. “When you were in the jail cells, you acted like you didn’t even know him.”

She frowned. “Sorry about that. I couldn’t let anyone — especially Keras— realize how important he is to me. And in general.”

“What if that deception had caused me to leave the two of you in there?Or if Keras got impatient and triggered the traps?”

Vera shook her head. “Had to take my chances. There was too much of a chance Keras would have killed Echion outright if he’d known what he was dealing with. Echion wouldn’t have starved, and I doubt the traps would have done much to him.”

She paused for a breath. “Believe me, I thought long and hard about how I was going to behave in order to find the best chance of getting us both out. And that meant trying to get myself out, so I could find a way to free him. You having a second key just made it easier. If you’d just freed Echion and tried to walk out, I suspect Katashi would have just killed you both.”

I nodded. “Why’d Katashi attack him? Was this some kind of coup? Is Echion actually Tenjin?”

Vera shook her head. “No, but it’s not a bad guess.” She took in a deep breath. “Let me start from the beginning. Caelford and Valia have been allies since the Six Year War.”

I remembered the class about that. About eighty years ago, Edria’s army had swept east and conquered the kingdom of Kelridge — now known as “East Edria” — which sat along Valia’s border. They’d continued to push toward Valia, but we put up a better fight.

Caelford was on the opposite side of the continent — the far west side — and bordered West Edria. They were concerned about being Edria’s next target after Valia fell, and had some border skirmishes on their own, so they provided us with advanced weapons during the war. Caelford’s powerful cannons had been a key part of how we were able to hold the numerically superior Edrian army at bay.

I waved a hand. “Sure. And I take it this had something to do with the Edrian forces massing at our borders?”

Vera nodded. “More than you realize. Caelford and Valia have been bracing for another Edrian push for decades. Our spies told us that the time for that assault is finally on the horizon, so we decided to accelerate the timeline on one of our most important research projects.”

Some sort of joint military research between our nations made sense. I nodded for her to continue.

“Our team was put together from some of the best each nation could offer. I was the least experienced, but I had a strong connection with the research subject.”

“The research subject was a person?” I frowned. “Echion, I suppose?” Jin raised a hand to his temple, looking introspective.

Vera continued. “Yeah. I’m sure you saw the marks on his forehead. We were doing some... unusual research with him. We had a powerful enough group that we assumed we could keep him safe regardless of what we ran into. We weren’t expecting a visage.”

I folded my arms, considering. “Katashi or Tenjin?”

“Tenjin. One of the members of our group cast what sounded like an ordinary summoning spell, but Tenjin arrived instead of the summoned monster. Showed up with an entourage. Told us that what we were doing was extraordinarily dangerous, that we were dabbling with powers beyond our comprehension... that sort of thing. Commanded us to stand down and surrender. And, you know, I think we would have. Probably.”

“What happened?” I asked.

“His entourage stabbed him in the back — almost literally. One of ‘em put a hand on his back. Blasted a hole in his chest. Didn’t kill Tenjin, but it certainly startled him. I guess the traitor realized that a shroud doesn’t protect someone from attacks that come from inside the shroud.”

Jin bristled. “A visage could not be harmed so easily.”

Vera shrugged. “Just telling you what I saw. Anyway, that traitor — woman in a dark mask — kept pummeling Tenjin. The other member of the entourage went for us. Tall bastard, crazy good with a sword. Echion probably could have handled him, but our Summoner hit Echion with some kind of binding spell. Pinned him to the ground.”

I sighed. “This Summoner. Was that Elora Theas, by any chance?” She tightened her jaw. “Yeah, that’s the bitch’s name. You know her?”

I thought back to the fight between Keras and the Council of Lords. Elora had tried to chain Keras down, probably with the same spell she’d used on Tenjin. Keras had broken out almost instantly.

I nodded. “Yeah. Or, I know of her, anyway. So, she turned on your group and helped the people who were attacking?”

“Yeah. It was obvious this was a planned ambush. Rochelle and Lawrence put up a good fight, but that swordsman was just too much. Must have been an Emerald. Even three Citrines couldn’t stand up against him. Tenjin was starting to recover, but then Elora laid into him with her magic, too. Managed to pin him down like she did with Echion, then that masked woman knocked Tenjin out.”

That... sounded insane. The idea of a group of humans managing to incapacitate a visage — even if they accomplished it through the element of surprise — it was mind-boggling.

Then again, I’d seen Keras manage to hold Katashi at bay in a straight fight.

And Tenjin was the Visage of Inspiration. He wasn’t known for his combat abilities. It was possible that he was considerably weaker in a direct confrontation than someone like Katashi would be.

Something she said earlier scratched at the back of my mind, though. “Why do you think Echion might have been able to handle the situation if he hadn’t been incapacitated?”

Vera winced. “You saw that mark on his forehead, yeah?”

I nodded and another piece of the puzzle slid into place. “You’re experimenting with making artificial attunements, aren’t you?”

Vera ran a hand through her hair. “Been doing that for decades. This was... a little more advanced than that. I won’t bombard you with theory, but the point is that Tenjin was right. It’s incredibly dangerous work.”

She paused, taking a breath, then continued. “We were bringing Echion into the tower to test him against monsters. We tried smaller tests at home, of course, but we needed something closer to real combat. If the test had succeeded, we’d have had a weapon that might have been strong enough to prevent a war.”

I could understand the logic behind that. In fact, I was very interested in the subject of artificially creating attunements myself.

If there was a way to give anyone power — and the power they wanted, not just what the goddess chose to give them — we could work toward a society with vastly better efficiency and quality of life for everyone.

Elementalist farmers could make rain for their own crops. Shaper blacksmiths could create tools and weapons with less effort and better quality results. Summoner couriers could teleport from place to place, saving tremendous amounts of time and effort.

There were already some people doing all these things, but most attuned were bound tightly to the military or similar pursuits. And, of course, only those people who were both wealthy enough to take the test and lucky enough to succeed managed to earn attunements. Most farmers never even stood a chance at getting one. Marissa’s family probably had to save up for years just to get her a shot at taking the test.

I could see problems with giving attunements to everyone, of course. The Judgments might have served as some sort of vetting process to determine who would be safe enough to carry one without causing harm to others, and the school education afterward served a second step in that process.

Moreover, two years of proper training meant it was less likely that an Elementalist would accidentally set a farm on fire or do something equally catastrophic.

I was optimistic that a society equipped to create attunements could find a way to make it work. It was something I wanted to research on my own, and if people were already succeeding, I wanted to know more.

The last part of what she said did bother me a little, though. Strong enough to prevent a war? Any individual attuned with that level of power was strong enough to start a war, too — or just cause tremendous damage. I’d need to find out more about that.

“What can you tell me about what you were doing with Echion? Why use a child?”

Vera shook her head. “I’m not going to get into that. It’s a deep secret for a reason. And before you chastise me for it, keep in mind that Tenjin wanted us to stop doing the experiments. I’m pretty confident Katashi wouldn’t want me spreading knowledge about them further.”

I shook my head. “Katashi seemed to want to kill Echion outright. Do you know why?”

Vera shrugged. “I can only speculate that Katashi was strongly opposed to what Echion represented. I doubt the visages are happy with the idea of artificial attunements in general.”

I nodded at that. “Can you tell me anything more about the tests you were planning to run?”

She winced. “I’d really rather not discuss anything that might make Katashi even angrier with me.”

That was pretty disappointing. I wanted to know as much as possible about these tests so I could understand exactly how they worked.

Maybe I could eventually devise safer alternatives?More importantly, I had some pretty serious moral issues with the idea of testing experimental magic on children — but I didn’t have enough context to know what dangers, if any, the tests might have involved.

I shook my head. “Fine. We can talk about it more later if it becomes necessary. For the moment, though, tell me what happened next.”

“Once Tenjin was out, we tried to fall back, but that swordsman was brutal, and Elora knew all our tricks. She was one of the strongest members of our group in the first place. That masked woman teleported out with Tenjin. That was the last thing I saw before the swordsman knocked me out. Then I woke up in a jail cell.”

I frowned. “Describe the swordsman.”

“Tall, olive skin, brown hair. He had a local accent. He talked with the other traitor and Elora a bit during the fight. Didn’t say too much, but it sounded like he was the one giving orders.”

That brought a couple people to mind. “Any chance it was Keras?”

She shook her head. “Don’t think so. Hair was shorter and lighter. Skin was darker.”

As it turned out, I knew an Emerald-level swordsman who met that description pretty much perfectly. Derek Hartigan.

And he was, of course, standing right outside. This was going to be awkward.

I’d known from the moment that I’d seen Elora Theas on the list that there was a good chance Derek was involved, too. This wasn’t explicit confirmation, but it made the possibility much more likely.

Keras was still a possibility. Someone as powerful as he was could have had another attunement we weren’t aware of that enabled him to change his appearance. If he had a Shadow Attunement or something similar, he could have changed minor things once he ended up in that cell so that Vera wouldn’t recognize him. I kept that possibility at the back of my mind, but Derek was clearly the more immediate concern.

I put my thoughts together and replied. “Okay. So, Elora betrayed your group for reasons unknown. She probably summoned Tenjin intentionally... but if the goal of her and her compatriots was to attack Tenjin, why botherwith all this?”

Vera twisted her lips as she considered that. “Not sure. I assume those two people with her were connected with Tenjin somehow and wanted his attention focused on something else, giving them a chance to attack while he was distracted. Or maybe it’s a political thing. Presumably, they escaped with an unconscious Tenjin — and then I ended up in that jail somehow, along with Echion. Maybe they wanted to make Caelford look responsible for Tenjin’s disappearance?”

I could follow that logic. “To drive a rift between Caelford and Valia. Yeah, that makes sense. Or just to get Katashi to focus his attention on Caelford and Valia while Edria is at our borders... If Katashi sends monsters to attack us because his brother is missing, that gives Edria a window to strike while our forces are defending the university.”

“That’s what I think’s probably happening: a couple Edrian agents trying to get Katashi to wreck this place while they invade. And by ‘trying’, I mean succeeding.” Vera cracked her knuckles. “Unfortunately, there isn’t much we can do about it.”

I tilted my head to the side. “Why not? We could go talk to Katashi. If you explain everything you just told me...”

She shook her head. “Two main problems with that. One, your own government has me under surveillance here. If I go anywhere other than my house or this office, I’m going to get arrested.”

I considered that. Elora is probably the one keeping Vera under observation. I’m a little surprised she hasn’t just had Vera arrested already — or just assassinated. Maybe Elora doesn’t want to bring this issue out into the open? I don’t know enough about the politics within the city’s leadership to speculate deeply.

I wish my mother was here. She might actually be on Elora’s side in this, if that memory crystal was any indication, but at least I could probably get some answers out of her.

Vera raised two fingers, continuing her explanation. “Two, I’m not willing to let Echion get dragged into this any further than he already has been. If I go to Katashi, he could use me to locate Echion here. I’m not okay with that.”

If Echion was already powerful enough that Vera believed he had a chance against an Emerald, I could see why even a visage might be concerned about him... and I could see why Vera wouldn’t want to give him up.

Jin spoke up, surprising me. Vera seemed startled, too. “We can get you into the tower without the government knowing. Your best chance to save yourself is cooperation.”

Vera absently scratched at the wall with her nails. “I’m still not willing torisk Echion suffering further.”

I shook my head. “Echion isn’t Katashi’s focus right now. Even if he was, I think we could convince him to make a deal. He wants his brother to be back safe. If we can convince him that this was probably an Edrian plot to conquer Valia, maybe that’ll be sufficient to turn his attention elsewhere.”

“I don’t like it. Too many uncertainties.” Vera shook her head. “I’m not going in there without a clearer plan.”

I scratched my chin. “What if we offered to teleport Echion to a safe place, where even Katashi might have a hard time finding him?”

“Can’t trust that you aren’t going to put him somewhere your own people are going to study him or hurt him.”

I considered that. “Katashi is going to come after you directly if you don’t go right now, and he’ll have an army of monsters with him. If what you want is to keep Echion safe, you want him as far from you as possible. What if we put him on a train back to Caelford?”

She rubbed her forehead. “I’d have headed back to Caelford with him by now if I could, but your government has people checking up on us. Tell you what, if you can successfully get Echion and my brother on a train to Caelford, and I’m satisfied that they’re not just going to be grabbed by your troops at the next city over, I’ll go with you to the tower.”

I vastly preferred this idea to trying to take Vera by force, even if we could accomplish it. If she cooperated, we had a better chance of talking Katashi down.

Unfortunately, this meant trying to arrange for Echion’s escape while in the company of someone I suspected was involved in the whole conspiracy. I needed to arrange this in a way that Derek wouldn’t find out where they were going.

I took a breath. “Okay. I think I can make this work. I have someone outside that can teleport us. If your brother and Echion are nearby, we can go to where they’re located and teleport a group of us straight to a train station. I don’t know what her range limit is, but she probably has enough influence to get Echion and your brother on a train without any questions being asked. Maybe even get you some fake passports if you need them. Give me a minute to make some arrangements.”

I turned to Jin. “Can you keep her company for a minute?”

Jin nodded in assent and I stepped back outside. I found the other three members of our group looking bored.

I turned to Professor Orden. “I think I’ve made sufficient arrangements, but I need to talk to you in complete privacy.”

Orden sighed dramatically. “Of course you do. Fine, fine, let’s get thisover with.”

She went through her usual incantation, teleporting us into that strange void that she called a safe location.

“Well?”

I took a moment to gather my thoughts. “Okay. Long story short, she’ll go with us voluntarily if we put her brother and a child from Caelford on a train back home in a way where they won’t be discovered or stopped. Complication is that people from our government are surveilling them, as you already mentioned.”

Professor Orden chuckled. “You want us to bypass border security? Is that all?”

I didn’t know if she was laughing because that was easy or hard.

“Uh, she’d want to watch them leave, and any assurances that you could give that they’ll make it back to Caelford would be helpful...”

Orden rolled her eyes. “Give me a few hours and I can get them all the way out of Valia on my own. When we’re in the Unclaimed Lands, I’ll put them on a train. Do you want to come along?”

My curiosity said yes, but my stomach was very at odds with that instinct.

Ultimately, I decided on the responsible route, even though I knew I was going to regret it when my seasickness kicked in. “Yes.”

“Anything else?” I nodded.

At this point, I could have told her everything that Vera had just told me, but I knew that Professor Orden was a member of some kind of secret organization with an agenda of their own. I didn’t think she was involved, but I still didn’t completely trust her, either.

“She gave me a considerable amount of information about what happened in there and I have a strong reason to suspect that Derek might be involved in all this. I don’t think we should bring him along.”

Professor Orden’s eyes narrowed. “I’m going to need a little more than that, Corin. That’s a fairly serious accusation.”

I debated how much to say. “She witnessed Tenjin being attacked, but she wasn’t one of the people who attacked him. She described one of the attackers as a tall Emerald-level swordsman with short brown hair.”

Orden went still for a moment, and then shook her head. “That is... worrisome, I agree. I believe it would be wise to bring him along and see how he behaves, but I will take significant precautions. An Enchanter is always prepared for contingencies, but in this case, I will take extra care.”

I nodded. “I’ll be careful, too.”

Orden grinned. “I’m certain you will be.”

***Two hours later, I stood outside a train station in the Unclaimed Lands. It had taken ten teleports to get us here.

Professor Orden was waiting with Echion, Vera, and Aloras right near where the train was set to arrive. They were conversing about something, but I wasn’t paying much attention.

One reason was that I was feeling horribly motion sick. Teleporting with the concussion had been more painful, but ten teleports managed to be way higher on the nausea.

As I threw up into a nearby bush, though, I noticed something I’d never experienced — tiny droplets of water falling freely from the sky.

Rain.

I knew what it was intellectually, of course, and I was no stranger to water itself.

But natural rain? I’d never experienced it. I hadn’t realized that it would make the air itself feel wet, that it would make things smell stronger. Everything in the rain felt a little bit more present, more real.

It was glorious.

Even with the world swimming around me from my motion sickness, I basked in the sensation of the droplets impacting against my clothes and hair.

I barely noticed when Vera said tearful goodbyes to Aloras and Echion. I did notice something just before Echion stepped on the train, though. He gave me a shy smile, waved, and whispered, “Thank you.”

I waved in return.

Maybe, in all this mess, I’d done one small bit of good.

***After we watched the train depart, our group wandered a short distance away from the train station. It wasn’t difficult to find a location to talk discreetly. We were miles from the nearest town, and only a few hundred yards in each direction around the train station had any signs of civilization. Beyond that, we hit the boundary of one of the deep forests that characterized much of the Unclaimed Lands. The Aspen Forest, maybe? I was terrible with geography.

We didn’t wander too far. It was well-known that dangerous monsters prowled freely in these forests, and only the powerful wards around the train station and tracks kept them from being assaulted. Before the tracks had been built there had been no easy path between Valia and Caelford. The two countries were on opposite sides of the continent, with hundreds of miles of the Unclaimed Land and a few smaller kingdoms like Sytennia and Erawen in between.

I was shocked at how thick the plant life was. Nearly every inch between the trees was covered in some sort of bushes or vines. We only walked in about a dozen meters before pausing in a small ring of grass.

Professor Orden spoke first. “I trust you all are aware of how dangerous this particular excursion into the tower will be. If any of you want to bow out now, this would be the time.”

Vera smirked. “I have a feeling that I don’t get that option?” Orden shot her a dark look. “No, Miss Corrington. You do not.”

I glanced to Jin and Sera, then back to the professor. “I can’t speak for the others, but I’m definitely going in.”

“Clearly.” Professor Orden looked at my companions. “Well?” “Going.” Sera said.

“I am also going.” Jin added.

“Yep. Definitely going.” Derek added, unprompted. “We should probably talk about what we’re all capable of. At this point, I should let you all know that I’m an Emerald. I can handle most of the heavy combat for our group.”

Vera’s eyebrows rose at Derek’s claim. I’d have been incredulous, too, if I hadn’t physically seen his Emerald aura. Wisely, she remained silent. Arguing with him wasn’t going to accomplish much.

I scratched my chin. “I’ve seen you fight, but I still don’t know what your exact capabilities are. What attunement do you actually have?”

“Oh! Of course. I’m a Soulblade. It’s sort of like a combination between a Summoner and an Enchanter. I make contracts to bind monsters to items, giving the items magical properties. I can also bind monsters to myself, which gives me some of the monster’s physical advantages. There are disadvantages, though.”

He took a breath. “Every monster I bind to an item takes up some of my mana while it’s bound, much like it would for a Summoner. That means I can’t just manufacture tons of items like an Enchanter. And unlike a Summoner, I can’t just spend mana to summon one or more copies of a monster as much as I want. I’ve only got the one monster in each item.”

He tapped the swords at his side. “I can release the monsters temporarily to fight, but if they get hurt, they actually get hurt. They’re not simulacra. The bond to the item affords them a degree of protection, since they can retreat back inside, but they can die.”

Sera made a ‘hmm’ noise, stepping closer to Derek. “Would it be possible for me to bind copies of the monsters you’ve imbued your items with?”

Derek nodded. “Technically possible, yeah, if I let them out for a bit. But I don’t think it’s a good idea. Delsys is a Citrine-level monster, and Tavare is Emerald-level. You could still make contracts, but your summoned versionswould be much weaker, much like what happened when you summoned the karvensi. And, moreover, I think you have too many bound monsters already.”

“What do you mean?” Sera folded her arms.

“I saw you binding everything you could in that Survival Match. That was brilliant, by the way.”

Sera stood up a little straighter at that statement.

Derek kept talking, though. “But you shouldn’t hold onto that many bindings long-term. You know how many creatures I’ve got bound? Four. And I’m an Emerald. It’s not worth taking up the mana to bind that many things to your attunement, especially when you’re just getting started. It does make you more flexible, of course, but you won’t have enough mana to actually deploy anything if all of it is being eaten up by contracts.”

Sera sighed. “I’d love to get rid of some of my weaker contracts, but some of them are mandatory for my classes. And the ones that aren’t mandatory — things like the ones I bound during that match — are ones I’d want to keep. I’m not exactly going to have a lot of opportunities to bind something as strong as a wyvern elsewhere.”

Derek’s eyes widened. “You managed to bind the wyvern in there? I don’t think I even noticed that. That’s pretty impressive, kid. I agree that you should keep that one. But if you’ve got as many bindings as I think you do, I’ll bet you could hit Carnelian right now if you just release some of the ones you’re not using. And getting yourself a shroud would be far more useful than having a little more summoning variety.”

Sera blinked. “Mana being used up by contracts doesn’t count toward my attunement advancing? That...makes a lot of sense, actually.” She glanced from side-to-side. “You know what? This is more important than classes.”

“Slime, I release our contract.” “Goblin, I release our contract.” “Imp, I release our contract.”

I turned my attunement on, watching Sera briefly shimmer as she spoke each line, and then a crimson aura burst around her as she spoke the final words.

“Huh.” I mumbled. “Congratulations, Sera.”

She grinned brightly at me. “Wish I’d known I could do that, I probably would have done it weeks ago. Think I should get rid of the ogre?”

I shrugged. “Depends on if you think you’ll need the muscle.”

“I’ll hold onto it for now.” Sera turned to Derek. “Thanks for the advice.

This feels... amazing.”

I felt a brief pang of jealousy that Sera’s attunement level had exceededmy own, but it was mixed with relief. If Derek decided to betray us, I wanted Sera to be as powerful as possible. A Carnelian wasn’t going to be able to handle Derek on her own, but every bit of extra power helped our chances of surviving.

“Just wait until you hit Sunstone. It gets better and better. Okay, enough from the two of us. Corin, what’ve you got?”

I patted the sword at my side. “I’m just a Quartz-level Enchanter. I have a basic magic sword with transference runes, nothing to brag about. Aside from that, I have a demi-gauntlet that can fire bursts of gray and transference mana and a stronger-than-average shield signet. I also have a device for measuring mana levels, but I don’t think it’ll be particularly useful in the tower.”

I didn’t mention the return bell, the book, or the Jaden Box deliberately. Derek was being friendly, but I still didn’t trust him as far as I could throw him.

“Oh,” I added, “I also am borrowing Professor Orden’s ring of regeneration.”

I was a little worried that she’d want it back, but it was worth mentioning.

I didn’t think we had any other healing, as far as I was aware.

She nodded. “You can hold onto that for now. You’re more likely to need it than I am.”

“That’s about it for me. Most of what I can contribute is normal supplies. Oh, I did bring a flask that generates water and a cloak designed to keep the wearer warm, in case we end up camping.”

“Both good ideas.” Derek nodded. “You should stay as far from combat as you can if you don’t have a shroud yet. The improved shield sigil is a good idea, but it’s far from perfect. Orden, you want to go next?”

“Sunstone-level Enchanter. I have a variety of useful devices, but I’m not going to list every one of them.”

I frowned. “Aren’t you also a Summoner?”

Orden wrinkled her nose. “Where’d you get that impression?” “All the teleporting?”

She shook her head. “Ah. I can see why you might presume that, but summoning and teleportation are similar, but not identical. Extremely powerful Summoners can teleport, but I can’t claim to be one. I do have a second attunement for that purpose. I’m a Wayfarer. It’s a Dalish attunement focused exclusively on mobility and teleportation.”

That answered a lot of questions, but it raised a few others. Nothing I needed to worry about immediately, though.

Orden folded her hands. “I suppose it’s safe to assume I will be able to teleport us short distances within the tower, but I require an anchor to teleportto. A person or object I’m familiar with is best. I may or may not be able to teleport us out of the tower if we are in a dangerous location. It depends on if the room we’re inside is currently sealed. You should not expect me to be able to provide us with a reliable escape.”

I nodded along with that answer. I had my return bell in case of emergencies, but it had similar restrictions.

Orden turned to Jin. “I believe you are next, Jin.”

“You may know that I carry two pistols and I am capable of using them with a degree of skill. I have several other basic items of Corin’s design, mostly focused on illusions and detection.”

Derek nodded. “Sounds good. What’s your attunement?”

Jin clenched his jaw. “Apologies, but I would rather not say. Professor Orden is aware of my situation and my reasoning.”

I frowned at that. I’d been assuming he was keeping his attunement concealed because he was in Spider Division, but this situation was potentially dangerous. That seemed far more important than a training exercise.

Orden nodded to Jin and turned to Derek. “I can confirm that Jin has a good reason for keeping his attunement private for the time being. Jin, if the situation is desperate enough, you may need to use your attunement regardless.”

Jin dipped his head just slightly. “I understand.”

Still being painfully mysterious, but I shouldn’t have been surprised. Given Jin’s encounter with Katashi, I was beginning to wonder if Jin might work for Katashi directly. Katashi was the patron visage of Dalenos, after all, and Jin had claimed to have the surname Dalen. Since he’d insisted he wasn’t royalty, that left several other options — and being a government agent or a servant of Katashi were both options that made concealing his abilities logical.

Orden turned to Vera next. “Well, if Jin is going to be pointlessly evasive, I suppose Vera is next.”

Vera shrugged. “Not much to say. Sunstone, for what little it’s worth. I’m just an Analyst. I can rapidly gather and process sensory information. Makes me good at reading through data and remembering it, but I’m not much of a fighter. Most practical skill in the tower is probably finding hidden passages, items, and that sort of thing.”

That made some sense. It sounded similar to a Diviner, but more focused.

We spent a moment in contemplation, each of us assessing the other members of the group, before Derek finally broke the silence. “We ready to do this?”

“Ready enough,” I replied. “I hope.”

***Another two hours later, six of us stood outside the tower.

Sera and Derek were bristling with energy, looking eager to get inside. We each signed a paper with the Soaring Wings at the gate.

Under Professor Orden’s instructions, Vera used a false name on the paperwork. If there really were government agents that didn’t want her going into the tower, we couldn’t afford to have them find out and send someone after us.

After signing the paperwork, I excused myself briefly to find a public washroom before we entered the tower.

While I was very close to losing my lunch over the teleporting, that wasn’t why I needed a washroom. In truth, I just needed a private location.

Closing the door, I found a utility closet large enough to stand inside, and removed the rod that was connected to my return bell. It wasn’t an ideal location, but I’d completely forgotten to ask Professor Orden where to put it. I didn’t want Derek to know about the retreat method, so I couldn’t ask while the whole group was together.

At least I’d have a way out of the tower, even if appearing here would be a little bit awkward.

Realizing that I wouldn’t be alone again for a while, I checked my book. No reply yet. Unfortunate, since I was in dire need of any additional information I could get.

With that, I made my way back to the group. “Everyone ready?” Professor Orden asked. We gave her a series of affirmative replies.

“Good.” Professor Orden turned to Derek, handing him a jeweled ring. He accepted it with a frown. “What’s this?”

“Just an emergency measure. Focus some gray mana into it if you need to get us out. If I’m incapacitated, we’ll need another way to teleport out of here.”

Guess I’m not the only one thinking about emergency escapes.

I wondered if it worked exactly like a bell. The ring was too small for me to see the runes on it.

I turned my head to Orden. She gave me a nod and a grin. I nodded in return.

And with that, the six of us stepped into the tower.

