CHAPTER XVII — ASSAULT

Sera was, as usual, the quickest. “By who?”

Orden glanced toward Sera. “Monsters from the tower. I don’t know numbers yet.”

“Oh, goddess.” Patrick took a step back, hugging himself. “Is anyone hurt?”

The professor turned toward Patrick. “It’s an attack on the city; of course people are being hurt. Pull yourself together, Mister Wayland. You’re supposed to be an attuned. Act like one. Panicking will not save any lives.”

Patrick nodded, but he was still shaking. “Yes...of course, professor.”

I walked over and nudged him on the shoulder. My hands were trembling, too, but being next to each other seemed to help us both.

Sera folded her arms. “What type of threats are we looking at?”

“A broad variety of monsters, including a swarm of karvensi.” Orden turned her head toward Vanniv, narrowing her eyes.

Vanniv put a hand over his chest. “I don’t know what you’re implying, madam professor, but I have a strict ‘no attacking cities’ policy.”

“As humorous as that might be, your true self could be up there, and we can’t have you carrying information back to him.”

The stone figure stretched his wings. “Fine, fine. I understand. But Sera, we still have a deal.”

She nodded. “We do. And if you are willing to help against other karvensi, I may have a need for you again soon.”

“That would be no problem. It would be no worse than humans killing other humans, after all.”

His nonchalance at that particular idea chilled me more than I could put into words.

Sera waved a hand at Vanniv. “Very well, then. Karvensi — or, rather, Vanniv — I dismiss you.”

A glowing circle of runes appeared around Vanniv and he bowed at the waist as he vanished.

Orden turned back to the group. “Good. With that threat addressed, you should all head to the shelters immediately.”

Ugh. I did not want to go to those again, especially not after how useless they felt last time.

Marissa spoke up before I had a chance. “Beggin’ your pardon, Professor, but I’d rather be fightin’ then buried in one of those tombs.”

A little more direct than I’d have put it, but it echoed my fears about the stability of the shelters pretty well.

Patrick turned his head toward Marissa. “Uh, Mara, are you sure that’s a good idea? I know you’re stronger than the rest of us, but...”

Marissa raised a hand to scratch the back of her head. “S’not that, Patrick. I’d just rather get stabbed than crushed to death. ‘sides, better to have Orden next to us than try to run on our own, yeah?”

Patrick paled a little.

Orden chuckled. “You seem to have a misconception, Marissa. I’m not going to be going anywhere near that fight. Being a teacher does not make me equipped for battle with monsters, nor would I be in any condition to fight even if I was properly trained for it. Who do you think has been making illusions and constructs for you to fight for the last hour?”

I folded my arms. “If you made that Tyrant punch me in the nose, you owe me a clean uniform.”

The professor turned to me, grimacing upon taking in my face. “I...may have calibrated that construct a bit too strong. It was necessary to give him a degree of solidity to — never mind. It’s not important. I’m afraid I’ve already sent the Menders away to the shelter, but I could teleport you to one?”

I shook my head. “No. This is irritating,” I could hear a wheeze in my voice, “But I’m with the Marissa. I want to fight.”

Patrick turned and stared at me for a moment, then tightened his jaw.

The door to the room swung open, and Professor Teft was standing in the doorway. “Lyras, I need you now.”

Orden swung a glance in his direction, sighing. “If you insist, dear.”

Dear?Professor Orden turned back to us. She opened her mouth to say something, then closed it, furrowing her brow. “Hrm.”

Teft folded his arms. “I don’t like that expression.” “Oh, hush, Jonathan. The adults are thinking.”

Teft glowered at her. “Commander Bennet is waiting for us.”

Orden’s lips twitched into a harsh curve. “Let Jack wait. I need to properly direct the children.” She snapped her fingers. “Corin. When the monsters were scouting last time they were here, did any of them see you?”

I nodded. “At least one of them looked right at me.”

“Good. Then you’re not the target, which narrows the options somewhat.

Jonathan, has anyone determined who is commanding the monsters yet?” “Yes, but I’m really not sure we should be discussing this—” “Humor me.”

He folded his arms. “Word is that Katashi has been sighted just outside the tower. He’s not attacking — thank the goddess — but if he’s present, it’s safe to assume he’s controlling the creatures that are.”

I admit I might have taken a step back when I heard the name “Katashi”. I hoped no one noticed.

Jin was looking at me strangely, though, so I’m pretty sure he sawsomething.

Orden steepled her fingers. “Perfect. I’m going to send you and Corin to talk to him.”

Teft blinked. “...excuse me?”

I almost laughed. I’d never seen someone manage to catch Teft off guard like that before. He actually stammered.

Orden took a step toward me, releasing a hand to gesture for me to approach. “Come now, Corin. Time to address some past mistakes.”

I sighed. “Will you be coming along with us?”

“Of course not. As I said, I’m not much of a fighter, and it’ll be dangerous out there. I’ll be going to talk to the vice chancellor, where undoubtedly he’ll make efficient use of my abilities by having me wrangle more children into our lovely shelters.”

I folded my arms. “Not exactly a fighter myself, Professor.”

“Oh, you have a sword, you’ll be fine. Besides, you’re going to go talk.

Fighting shouldn’t be necessary.”

I refrained from pointing out the contradictions in her argument; she was obviously already aware of them. I didn’t know precisely what she was plotting, though. Was this another one of her little tests to see how I’d behave?I didn’t think so.

Teft shook his head. “What are you about, Lyras? Why would Corin have anything to do with Katashi?”

Orden rolled her eyes. “Corin met Katashi during his Judgment, darling, and walked out with his memories intact. He also managed to break threepeople out of a prison inside the tower. Do try to keep up.”

Teft shot a glance at me, and I could sense the entire rest of the group turning to look at me. “Is this true?”

Ugh. This was not the right time to be telling people about this.

“That’s a truncated version, but yes. One of my test rooms was a prison, and I opted to let people out of it. Turns out it might not have been strictly a normal part of the test. I’m still not certain what exactly happened.”

Sera tilted her head to the side. “Tristan?”

I shook my head. “It wasn’t him. I would have told you if it was.”

She frowned, but gave me the slightest nod. “We’ll need to talk about this later.”

Orden stepped closer to me. “Right. Later is fine. For the moment, time is of the essence. If Katashi isn’t looking for Corin here, he’s almost certainly looking for one of the people that Corin helped escape. Seeing as Katashi did let Corin leave the tower alive, I don’t believe he’ll be hostile, and if Corin offers to cooperate, we might be able to minimize the damage to the school.”

I wasn’t sure I agreed with her logic. Katashi had been pretty distracted by Keras when I escaped. The fact that he hadn’t sent anyone to eliminate me up to this point just implied that I was a low priority, at least in my mind.

I didn’t want to argue her point, though, because I did want to go. Both to protect the city and because a chance to talk to Katashi might give me some real answers. I needed those answers.

I wasn’t going to let a little thing like the possibility of annihilation stopme.

Marissa stepped up next to me. “I’m comin’ along, unless you mind.

Rather be out there in the open to lend Corin a hand if he gets into trouble.” “I’m going to send them directly to the tower — but fine, if you insist.

Any other children feel the need to keep Corin safe from nothing at all?” Sera stepped over and nodded to me. “I’m going, of course.”

Patrick’s hands tightened his hands into fists. “Fine. I still think this is insane, but I’m not letting the rest of you go without me.”

A few moments passed. Jin didn’t join us.

He was still silently watching from the back of the group, his jaw tight, eyes narrowed.

I felt a surge of relief that I wasn’t going to be going out there alone, even with my disappointment that Jin — the first person who had stepped in to rescue me in something resembling a real fight — wasn’t going to help me this time.

I hoped it wouldn’t matter.

Orden glanced at Teft. “Anything else you want to share before I teleport you?”

“For now, the fighting appears to be constrained to the area directly surrounding the tower. The Soaring Wings are doing their best to keep the combat contained to that region, but karvensi and gargoyles are emerging from the top of the tower and flying toward the academy. Katashi was sighted on the eastern side, near one of the Climber Gates.”

I wondered how he’d picked up that much information. The earthquakes had only occurred minutes ago. It was probable that the attacks had started sometime before the earthquake, but he still seemed very well-informed about something that was happening a solid mile away. Did he have some kind of communication spell? If so, I needed to learn it, and as soon as possible. That kind of thing would be invaluable both in our tests and in real threats like this one.

“Eastern gate it is, then. Children, if you’re coming, join hands.” She extended a hand to me, and another to Teft. I took one, and extended another to Patrick.

The linking hands continued until Jin was the only one left outside — and finally, with the utmost hesitation, he stepped in.

I breathed an audible sigh of relief. We’ll be safe if we’re all together. And Orden spoke.

“Spirit of wind and air, I command you!By the pact sealed between us, I invoke your power. Rise around us and within us;Carry us upon your ethereal wings to the place of greatest safety. Veiled Teleport!”

***My head swam, my vision blurred, and something slammed into my knees.

When I regained my focus, I realized that something was the dirt — I’d lost my balance and fallen right after the teleport. I was blearily aware of people around me, but my hands were no longer linked with anyone.

I wretched, a combination of bile and blood. Fortunately, the others managed to get out of the way before I doused anyone’s shoes.

“Oh, for the goddess’ sake, Lyras. Just how hard did your construct hit him?”

Teft’s voice, probably. I couldn’t really process anything.

“I didn’t think... never mind. Corin, stop vomiting.”

I turned my head in her direction, my best “Are you reshing kidding me” expression on my face.

She sighed, offering me a handkerchief. “Wipe yourself off, then I’ll give you something for the pain.”

I took the cloth, wiping off my face, and then spitting some of the remaining acidic fluid in my mouth into it. With that done, I discarded it onto the ground. She could pick the thing up if she wanted it.

My head felt like it was in a vice, like I’d gone too far underwater and my ears were popping from the pressure.

“We don’t have time for this.” I felt Orden grab my left hand, slipping something onto my pointer finger. “Channel a bit of your mana into that.”

That was easy enough. I sent a pulse of gray into the ring. The ring warmed in response, but not to the point of burning. That warmth spread across my arm, flowing throughout the rest of my body.

“What’s wrong with him?” Sera’s voice.

Teft responded. “Teleporting someone with a head injury is a dangerous prospect at best. Someone should have known better.”

“The ring will take care of him.” Orden again. I couldn’t see her clearly, yet, but the warmth had spread all the way to my neck, and I was starting to feel a tingling sensation on my back.

By the time I felt the warmth spreading across my face, I was starting to feel a little bit better. “Healing magic?” I murmured.

“Regenerative. It’s not as fast as a direct healing spell, but it also doesn’t require the same degree of precision to get it right. Direct healing spells are almost never used in items, since they can end up causing permanent harm. Regeneration, however, is quite safe.”

Ah, Orden. Always lecturing.

“I’m keeping this.” I managed. “In exchange for my best nose.” I heard a few laughs around me, which was good.

Orden didn’t join in the levity, but she did respond. “Your humor seems intact at least. Good. Not a useful tool with Katashi, but it implies you’re awake enough to talk. With that, I should be going. You can borrow the ring until you’re recovered.”

“I’m sitting down now.”

I sat, only then noticing the ring of concerned eyes around me.

And, much more worryingly, the vast number of winged figures in the naked sky above us.

And by naked, I mean that there was no environmental shield. None.

I’d never seen the sky without a shield occluding it. It hadn’t been disabled during my lifetime.

Without it, we were vulnerable. Not just to rain and snow, but to a far more terrifying prospect.

Invasion.

Keeping the elements off of us was the practical application of the barrier, but it served a more important function on the international scale. It blocked a vast variety of foreign spells from getting into the city. Scrying, teleportation, artillery spells — it was an effective tool against both reconnaissance and direct attacks.

And it was gone.

I didn’t even know how that was possible. Was it temporary?My head had already been swimming before the implications of that lack began to dive into the murky pool.

I was so distracted that I didn’t even notice Orden teleport herself out of the area, leaving the rest of us behind.

Patrick offered me a hand, but I shook my head. “Not just yet.”

At least his hand had stopped shaking. Now that we were here, he looked calmer than I felt.

My retainer frowned. “We’re going to need to move soon. We’ve got company on the way.”

I glanced around, taking in my direct surroundings for the first time since the teleport. My friends were standing in a defensive ring around me, facing outward, along with Teft. And Teft. And another Teft.

Simulacra. I really wished I could do that. Outside of our protective circle? Chaos.

The tower itself loomed above us, a few hundred yards away. Hundreds— maybe thousands — of flying creatures were swarming around the upper levels, flying in a circular pattern.

The nearest buildings had belonged to the Soaring Wings, the loyal guardians that kept us safe from the rare cases of monsters getting out of the tower. Their headquarters had been smashed to bits.

Mizuchi, the Hero’s End, rose triumphant above the rubble of the largest structure. Her towering mass was unharmed by the dozens of armored attuned that still stood around her, barraging her with a flurry of attacks. Her serpentine body was even larger than I’d realized when I’d seen her in the skies above. It only took a flick of her tail to demolish a nearby tower.

For every one of the Soaring Wings that still stood, I could see three or four more that didn’t. They were bloodied and broken among the rubble, the latest victims of a beast of legend.

They’re dead. Those soldiers are dead.

I shivered. This is insane! We could be next. How’d I let Orden talk us into this?As I watched, she reared up, drawing in a deep breath as members of the Wings scattered apart. I could hear a loud hum as blue sparks spread across her body, a glimmering aura coalescing in her mouth.

A blue dome appeared around us. One of Teft’s bodies was kneeling, maintaining some kind of defensive spell.

Mizuchi exhaled.

A voltaic charge of impossible brightness tore free from her mouth, ripping through stone and dirt and leaving a charred and smoking trail where it passed.

The line of lightning grew in intensity, brighter and brighter, until a burning shockwave flashed across the area and forced my eyes shut. I felt the impact against our shield; heard the cracks spreading across the surface the moment before the barrier completely failed.

When my eyes opened, I saw the two other versions of Teft kneeling along with the first, their eyes closed in concentration. They’d formed two more barriers and only the last of them was still intact.

We’d been hundreds of meters away from the epicenter of that blast, barely even in sight of the people on the ground — and it still probably would have killed us outright if Teft hadn’t intervened.

And all three versions of him were sweating with exhaustion. “We need to move,” Patrick said again.

I nodded and stood. Teft’s last barrier fell, his two copies vanishing. Their mana had run dry.

Marissa and Jin helped a still-shaken Teft to his feet while Patrick led the way.

It wasn’t hard to see our destination, now that I was looking.

Katashi floated just in front of the tower, his brilliant aura of azure extending so far that I had no difficulty locating him in spite of his physical form being dwarfed by the tower’s size.

Fortunately, he was hovering just in front of the gate; he hadn’t taken to high in the skies like many of the gargoyles and karvensi had.

Less fortunately? There were dozens of land-bound monsters between us and him.

I counted about twenty barghensi, a handful of humanoid-sized spiders, and a single orange-auraed minotaur.

Is that a Sunstone aura? I’m not sure we can handle that.

“Got a spire guardian over there,” Patrick pointed out just as my mindprocessed it.

“I’ll...” Teft coughed and stumbled, falling to a single knee. Jin hurriedly hauled him back to his feet.

“Nonsense,” Jin replied. “You have done enough, Professor. Rest and recover. You will do us a greater service later in this way.”

Teft gave a weak nod.

We continued approaching the horde of monsters without a plan.

When they were about a hundred yards out, I turned to Sera. “Do you think they could tell the difference between Vanniv and one of the karvensi in the sky?”

“No, but if you’re thinking he could talk us through, it probably won’t work. They’re probably not smart enough to understand.”

I nodded. “Got enough strength for whatever your mystery summon is yet?”

She clenched her hands in the air. “I don’t think so. Maybe. But I don’t know if that would be the wisest idea here, even if I could manage it.”

The barghensi started moving forward to intercept us, the spiders right behind them. The minotaur remained near the tower, only a dozen yards in front of Katashi.

We had a bigger problem, though.

Those hundreds of flying creatures above us had stopped circling and they were forming up on our side of the tower.

“Oh, that’s bad,” Patrick mumbled, pointing up.

“No more time for debate.” Sera folded her hands in front of her. “Vanniv, I summon you!”

Vanniv flickered into existence at her side, his eyes widening as he took in the horde in front of us. “Oh, what is this nonsense now?”

Sera pointed up. “They look like they’re about to dive. Does that sound right to you?”

Vanniv nodded. “Yep. You’re pretty much doomed, sad to say. I would mourn you, but you know, I won’t exist—”

Sera poked a finger into his chest. “No time for banter. Go tell them we’re friends?”

He rolled his eyes. “There’s always time for banter, little Cadence, but don’t fret. I will, of course, come to your rescue.”

Vanniv took off at once, flying toward the disconcertingly massive swarm of flying monsters.

Which just left us with the ones on the ground, now nearly close enough to strike.

Patrick stepped up next to Sera. “You got enough mana left for our newtrick?”

She nodded, grabbing his left hand. “Oh, yes.”

Patrick grinned, turning back to me and Marissa. “Buy us a few seconds?” Marissa nodded.

Then she charged.

She was a blur of gold and white, her Guardian shroud blasting her forward with preternatural speed.

I...couldn’t possibly keep up with that.

I drew my sword and cautiously followed her at a jogging pace.

Marissa slammed into the first barghensi with a punch like a runaway train. It must have weighed eight hundred pounds, but it still flew backward like she’d smashed a toy doll.

Then she was moving again, jumping atop one of the spiders and slamming a boot into its skull. The creature crumpled as she leapt off it, and kicked another barghensi in the face.

I... think I was a little enthralled there, for just a moment.

And then I was in there amongst the monsters, swishing my sword out to slice through a barghensi’s leg. The enchanted sword cut cleanly through, crippling the creature, and I felt a pang of guilt as it howled in agony.

I almost shut down.

These weren’t illusions like the things I’d been fighting during the school tests. That barghensi’s pain was real.

Maybe most people told themselves that a monster’s pain was just part of a convincing illusion, but I’d been reading stories about monsters taking intelligent actions since my childhood. I couldn’t believe monsters to be less sentient than ordinary animals, and some of them seemed even more so. Meeting Vanniv and hearing him try to barter for an extended existence had further solidified my view.

Marissa slammed into me, pushing me out of the way of a monstrous spider claw. Fortunately, she danced out of the way in time to avoid taking the hit herself.

“No dyin’, Cadence.” She slammed a fist backward, not even looking at the creature she’d smashed. “You’ve got a job to do.”

I glanced back at the Hero’s End, the tower serpent still looming in the distance, violently lashing destruction in the next section of buildings.

Marissa was right. While hurting these creatures felt viscerally wrong, the wrong of failing to stop the assault was a far greater one. I’d have to stomach the guilt to save as many people as I could.

Of course, it was possible we would slaughter these creatures and still fail to talk Katashi into stopping the attack...but I couldn’t think about that. It wasthe kind of doubt that could rob my friends of their lives.

I nodded to Marissa. “Let’s do this.”

She grinned at me. “Back to back, yeah?”

I nodded, turning around and feeling her press against me. “Back to back.”

I lowered my blade, drawing in breath as I looked at the approaching creatures with renewed resolve.

“Uh, yeah, don’t do that!” Patrick shouted. “Be ready to run!”

I glanced at Patrick and Sera. They were still holding hands... and they were glowing, a pulsing aura of bright blue and white enveloping the pair.

I had no idea what that meant.

“Aww, c’mon!” Marissa shouted. She broke from our short-lived formation, stepping forward and slamming another barghensi in the jaw with a fist. This one took the hit without flying back. It merely staggered.

It didn’t look any stronger. That meant Marissa was getting weaker. She’d burned through most of her mana fast.

I spotted a spider rushing at her from the right. She turned to move, stepping backward — and promptly tripped over her own feet.

I moved without thinking, stepping in the way and bringing my blade upward in a diagonal slice. I felt the transference mana running along the edge as if it was a part of me, pushing it outward with the force of instinct.

A vast wave of cutting energy ripped free from my strike, flashing into the distance.

When it ended, the looming spider fell into two pieces, cleanly split in half.

“Th—thanks!”

I slashed to the left and right, warding off two encroaching barghensi as Marissa regained her footing.

Patrick’s voice hit me next. “Back off, fast!”

The monsters were keeping a healthy blade-length away from me now, which gave us a moment to process Patrick’s shout and move.

As we started to run, two voices rose as one.

“Child of the goddess, we call upon your aid.

Rain frost from the skies in a Permafrost Cascade!”

The world darkened as the sky was filled with ice. Even with my blood burning with exertion, the newborn chill nearly froze me in place.

Wedges of frost the size of wagons flashed downward from the sky in the dozens, smashing and cleaving the horde of monsters arrayed behind us.

When Marissa and I made it back to Patrick and Sera, we found them kneeling, still holding hands with their eyes frozen shut. Hoarfrost clung to their bodies, the withering aura of ice around them too potent for me to come within arm’s reach.

I turned to see if any of the monsters had made it through the spell to close on us, but I had no need to worry. Javelins of frost continued to pommel those few creatures that had managed to survive the initial barrage, pinning limbs and piercing throats until not a single barghensi or spider remained standing.

When the pair finally pulled their hands apart, shivering and panting, no further threats moved toward us.

But the minotaur still loomed in the distance, far beyond their spell’s bombardment range.

Teft staggered close to the pair as the aura around them began to fade. “You did...well. I’m not sure I’ve ever seen first year students manage a cooperative spell on that scale.”

“I will take care of things from here.” Jin stepped in front of the group, calmly walking past us toward the distant minotaur.

I started to follow him, but he turned his head as I moved. “I will not be able to protect you if you are close.”

I wanted to protest that I could protect myself, but Marissa had already almost taken a hit for me, so that clearly wasn’t true.

“I’ll keep a safe distance. Marissa, protect the others.” Jin’s tone brooked no argument. Even Teft simply gave Jin a scrutinizing glance and then nodded.

I sincerely hoped that Teft knew something that I did not.

As Jin marched forward, I stayed a good twenty yards back, deliberately avoiding the frigid grounds where the monsters had fallen moments before.

A glance upward told me little. The ice from the spell had faded when Patrick and Sera had broken contact, and the flyers above were holding steady. I couldn’t see Vanniv in their midst. There were simply too many of them, and they were too high up to be clearly distinct. Of whether he’d succeeded or failed, I could see no clear sign.

When Jin was a stone’s throw away from the tower, the minotaur finally moved.

And in spite of being the height of an ogre, it was fast. With a single motion, it hurled a tremendous two-handed axe through the air, the projectile whirling toward Jin’s location with a visible aura of force.

And Jin wasn’t moving fast enough to dodge.

I lashed out in alarm, slashing in the air and pushing a wave of manatoward the axe, but I wasn’t fast enough either. The blade slammed right into Jin’s chest——and he vanished.

Reminding me of one of the very first things I’d made him.

Item that allows for the projection of an illusory self.

A part of me expected to see the real Jin appear a moment later, but fortunately for Jin, his invisibility was from a completely separate item. Moments passed and I still couldn’t see any sign of him.

I did hear him, though, when his guns began to fire.

The minotaur grunted as bullets slammed into its chest and neck.

I’d enchanted Jin’s revolvers, too — but even with transference enchantments to increase the velocity of the projectiles, the bullets didn’t seem to be doing the minotaur much harm.

The minotaur grunted, lowering its horns toward the sound of the noise, and charged.

The sound of gunfire stopped. Jin must have realized that it was tracking him through sound as soon as it moved.

I continued to move forward, slowly working to close the distance where I might be able to reliably hit the minotaur with one of the transference waves from my sword.

I really needed to come up with a good name for that technique at some point.

The minotaur halted its charge with no sign of impact, which was good. Then it turned toward me, which was bad.

I raised my sword with both hands, preparing to push a transference slash at the creature as soon as it got close enough.

“Corin, move!”

I jumped back just as the creature’s axe swept through the air where I’d been moments before, close enough that it brushed the trailing fabric of my tunic.

That was when I remembered that I hadn’t properly recharged my barrier after the test.

The axe continued to fly past me, circling around until it landed in the minotaur’s upraised hand.

It threw the axe again immediately — right toward the location of the warning shout.

A flashing sphere of blue told me that the axe had struck home.

Jin appeared, falling to his knees as the axe flew back to the minotaur. He had no visible injuries — the barrier had successfully prevented the axe from cutting him — but barriers were terrible at stopping raw kinetic force.

From the way Jin was coughing and gripping his chest, one of his pistols fallen from his hand, I was pretty sure he’d just lost a couple of ribs.

The minotaur let out an echoing laugh, snorting into the air, and caught the axe as it flew back to the creature’s hand.

It advanced slowly now, hefting the axe over its shoulder, giving Jin more than enough time to flee.

The problem, of course, was that Jin wasn’t getting back up.

I was close enough that I could hear him breathing now, but it was a ragged wheeze.

I glanced back at my group. Marissa was bolting toward us.

But she was running at an ordinary mortal’s speed now. No aura of gold flickered around her, no Guardian power remained to give her strength.

I ran to stand in the minotaur’s path.

The creature tilted its head downward, eyeing me with disdain.

I ripped the ring that Professor Orden had given me off my finger, tossing it at Jin. Fortunately, we were close enough that it hit him straight in the chest. “Put that on and use it, now!”

I didn’t wait to see if he complied. I had a mere instant to step aside before the axe slammed into the space where I’d been standing.

I countered with a thrust into the minotaur’s thigh. The creature howled, stepping back in surprise.

I gave my bloodstained blade a flourish in the air. “You just hurt my friend. That was a mistake.”

I turned my gaze up to meet the minotaur’s. “Let’s dance.”

The minotaur was a good ten feet tall. Almost twice my height, and probably at least five or six times my mass and strength.

But that wasn’t much different from a child of ten learning to fight against a champion duelist father.

As he pulled his axe out of the ground, I rolled between his legs, turning and slashing his hamstrings. The enchanted blade bit into flesh, but it didn’t cut straight through bone like it had with the barghensi. The creature’s Sunstone aura was a natural shield, dampening the force of my blows.

I cut twice more before it managed to spin, each cut leaving only a slight mark.

But it didn’t matter.

As the axe swept around, I ducked beneath it, thrusting upward to pierce straight into the minotaur’s chest. The blade only sank in a few inches — but that was enough.

I pushed on the aura in the blade, blasting mana straight into the wound. The minotaur fell backward, dropping the axe to clutch its chest.

I smirked, moving in to strike a final blow—— and its hand shot out, grabbing me by the neck.

I struck out in shock as it began to squeeze, but it turned its head aside, and my thrust aimed for the neck scraped harmlessly across a cheek.

My vision reddened as the minotaur began to squeeze.

And then the sound of a single shot rang out and the pressure faded to nothing.

I fell to my knees, panting as the minotaur collapsed at my side, lifeless. Smoke rose from the hole where a bullet had pierced the back of the creature’s skull.

I dropped my sword, shivering. I couldn’t quite process what had just happened. It wasn’t until I saw Marissa kneeling over Jin’s fallen form that I managed to push myself to my feet.

I staggered past the fallen minotaur toward where Marissa was shakingJin.

“Wake up, Jin! Wake up!”

Oh, goddess.

I got closer to Jin, I saw something shining on the ground just in front ofhim. The ring.

He hadn’t put it on.

He’d picked up a pistol and saved me instead.

Resh. Jin...

Marissa glanced at me with a panicked expression. “Corin, we need to do something. He’s not conscious, and I don’t think he’s breathing right.”

I swept up the ring and knelt by the pair. “Give me his hand.”

Marissa looked at me in confusion, taking in the ring a second later. She gripped one of his hands and moved it to me. The ring didn’t quite fit on his pointer finger, so I slipped it on his index finger instead.

I didn’t have a good idea of how it worked. Orden had me activate it with my own mana. I didn’t know if I could make it work for someone else. But I had to try.

I closed my eyes, focused my mind, and pushed gray mana into the ring. And I had no idea if anything happened.

Since I wasn’t the one wearing the ring, I wouldn’t be the one experiencing the regeneration. Thus, I felt no change.

I panicked for a minute like an idiot before thinking to activate my attunement.

There was a faint aura stretching from the ring across his arm, but it didn’t seem to be spreading further.

It wasn’t enough. I gripped the ring and pushed my mana harder, floodingit with gray, but the ring resisted the flow. It wasn’t meant to be used in this way, and I could only push it to a limited degree.

“Wake him up if you can. The ring isn’t working properly without his mind to regulate it.”

I stood up, and Marissa’s eyes followed me. “What are you doing?” “Going for help.”

I turned toward the visage of the goddess, his body burning with sacred fire, and I walked with determination.

I came within about twenty feet before the visage deigned to acknowledge my presence. His head turned ever-so-slightly, his lips twisting downward.

Not an auspicious start.

“I know you, mortal.” Katashi raised a hand to his chin. “You may kneel before me.”

Normally, I’d want to say something snappy to anyone being that sanctimonious.

But this was Katashi. He could annihilate me with a gesture. So, grinding my jaw, I knelt. “Great Katashi—”

“I did not give you leave to speak, scion of House Cadence. I was merciful before because I sensed you were not aware of the actions of the ones you freed, and because you are unimportant.”

I pressed my head against the dirt in supplication. I hoped it would be enough.

Katashi flickered closer. As he reappeared above me, I could feel a burst of pressure push down on me from his aura, and not merely on my body. I could feel the mana within me constricting. The visage’s mere presence was twisting my power, paralyzing it.

I trembled in abject terror.

Authority figures generally didn’t scare me. I had no hesitation about mouthing off to someone like Teft. But if I made a mistake here? Not only could Katashi annihilate me outright, he could kill everyone I cared about with another gesture.

“Why have you come to me? You may answer honestly.”

I raised my head just slightly, to make it easier to hear my reply. “I was hoping to stop the attacks.” And, with a sliver of bravery piercing through my fear, I managed an addition. “And my friend over there is dying. He’s a Dalen.”

I didn’t know much about House Dalen, but I did know that they were the ruling house of Dalenos, and that Katashi was their patron visage. I didn’t know what Jin’s connection to them was, but I hoped it would be sufficient.

“I will tend to one of my flock.”

I felt an almost palpable sense of relief as the words rolled over me and the pressure faded.

When I looked up, Katashi was no longer hovering above me. He was near Jin and Marissa.

And Marissa, bless her bravery, was standing defensively over Jin with her fists raised. She must have been too far away to hear my conversation with Katashi.

Katashi tilted his head downward to examine her.

I envisioned a thousand ways he could make her die.

My steps were feeble, but they carried me closer as he spoke to her. “You would stand between me and this one?”

I don’t know how, but Marissa stood unfazed by his voice, her back unbowed by the pressure that had torn my mind to nothing.

“Begging your pardon, m’visage, but if you’re meanin’ him harm, I’m a’fred so.”

“You are aware of who I am?”

His aura brightened as he spoke. I could feel the pressure even from a distance then, sapping away my will to even stand.

Marissa remained unbowed.

“Aye, m’visage. You be Katashi, sir. Not meaning to be rude, but I’m a Guardian, sir. I’d stand between my friends and the goddess herself.”

Katashi floated down, his feet touching the ground. He stepped close to her, his face nearly brushing against hers, their eyes fixed together.

And then he stepped back, folding his hands in front of him, and bowed at the waist.

“There is no cause in this world more valuable than the desire to protect another. You have proven a worthy companion to this one. He walks a difficult path. I am pleased that one such as you will be at his side.”

Katashi knelt, pressing his hands against Jin’s chest. “Breathe.”

A wave of white light flowed from Katashi’s hands to encompass Jin’s entire body.

And Jin breathed in. Marissa raised her hands to her mouth, falling to her own knees to grip Jin’s hand. She turned her head up to Katashi. “Many thanks, m’visage. For your kind words, but more, for saving my friend.”

Katashi released his hands from Jin’s fallen form and stood. He turned his head back to Marissa. “Worthy one, speak your name.”

Marissa bowed her head. “Marissa Callahan, m’visage.” “Marissa Callahan, reveal your attunement to me.”

“Yes, m’visage.” Marissa didn’t show the slightest hint of embarrassment as she unbuttoned the top buttons of her uniform, opening it up to display thecenter of her chest.

Her attunement was over her heart.

Katashi’s hand glowed again as he spoke. “Marissa, you will need greater strength to protect your friends from harm. You have already begun to walk this path on your own, but I will grant you a sliver of my strength in acknowledgement of your bravery.”

A flicker of blue fire appeared on his finger as he reached forward — and drew an extra line on her sigil.

And for the first time, I saw an attunement change.

Marissa gasped, clenching her fists. Her entire body trembled and she screamed into the air as an aura of crimson fire poured out of her.

No, not crimson. Carnelian.

She’d reached the next level of her attunement.

The aura persisted around her even as she bowed her head. “I thank you again, m’visage, for your kindness. It is undeserved.”

He glanced back to her for one more moment. “Our business has concluded.”

And then he was in front of me again, with no sign of how he’d crossed the intervening space. I’d seen teleportation before, of course, but this was effortless. I couldn’t imagine even Professor Orden moving in the same way, without a single telltale gesture or word.

I was wise enough to kneel immediately this time.

“Cadence. I tire of speaking with humans, even if there is a virtuous one among you. You spoke of a wish to stop the attacks on the city. I am not inclined to do so. You may attempt to persuade me, but I am not in a patient mood.”

“If you will forgive a question, why are you attacking?”

Katashi waved a hand dismissively. “Your kingdom’s leaders are aware of their failure. But you are but a child, and I will forgive you for the inquiry. My brother is missing. Conspirators among your people hide him from me. This is unacceptable.”

I frowned. I knew Tenjin hadn’t been seen recently in human society, ofcourse, and that Katashi being here was unusual. I’d suspected that Katashi was pulling a coup, if anything.

I hadn’t considered that he might have been worried about his own brother.

“I...sympathize with that more than you might realize, great one. I have spent the last five years hoping I could find my own brother in the tower. That has been my principal motivation in life.”

Katashi offered no reply. He simply turned his head aside. A moment of humanity, perhaps?I needed to capitalize on that if I could. “If you will stop the assault, I will vow to do everything in my power to help find your brother, just as I have searched for my own.”

Katashi looked down at me. “Protection is a worthy cause, as I told your brave Guardian. And I sense there is a degree of truth in your offer. You would make an effort, though not with all of your will. I do not fault you for only having a mortal’s resolve. But your vow is insufficient; you are but a child.”

The visage folded his arms. His expression seemed...tired. “These attacks will drive the conspirators out of hiding. I have no desire to harm the innocent while battling the wicked, but that is a price I am willing to pay to discover my brother’s location. The longer I wait, the more likely my brother will be harmed.”

I...understood his feelings on that matter all too well. Katashi shook his head, turning to leave.

“Wait. Please, wait, great visage. I want to help find your brother. Do you have any idea who might have taken him?”

Katashi spun, the segment of his aura closest to him igniting into fire. “Oh, I know quite well where to begin my search. Her name is Vera Corrington. You helped her escape. I am aware you were deceived. That is the only reason I have not destroyed you.”

I lowered my head. “Thank you for your magnanimity, visage. Please forgive my foolishness.”

“You wish for forgiveness? You wish for me to stop these attacks?”

His hands clenched into fists — which, of course, were also on fire. “You ask for much, Cadence. And I am not known for my forgiving side. But there may yet be a way to earn what you ask for. In freeing those prisoners, you may have gained their trust.”

Oh, I did not like where this was going at all.

“You will bring Vera Corrington to me, within the tower. If you agree to be bound to this, I will give this city a reprieve. If you should fail, or try mypatience, I will resume the assault. And heed my words; this strike showed great restraint on my part.”

He paused, glaring down at me, his eyes burning with — you guessed it— fire.

“You have seen how many of my winged ones merely gather around the tower; next time, I will send them all. You have seen a scattered few of my ground forces; next time, I will bring every one. You have seen the damage done by a child of the serpent; next time I will bring the Serpent herself.”

I shivered involuntarily, remembering when I’d seen Seiryu in the tower.

The God Serpent’s eye had been larger than my entire body.

Mizuchi, one of Seiryu’s children, was already demolishing this section of the city without difficulty. I couldn’t imagine anything managing to even slow Seiryu down. “How much time will I have?”

“You will have one week to find her and bring her to me. She must be alive. I will await you in the chamber in which we first met.”

I winced. “That’s...not much time, great visage. I’m sure you’re aware that my resources are limited, and if you’re right and there are people in our government working against you—”

“This is not a negotiation.”

I extended my right hand. “Then we have a deal.”

Katashi grasped my hand in his and I understood that my gesture had been a mistake when my flesh began to burn. “The Pact is Sealed.”

When he withdrew his hand, I had a mark on the back of my palm. It was not an attunement. No, I was not nearly so lucky.

It was a brand.

The sigil of Katashi had been burned into my skin. A reminder of our pact— and, more than likely, the sign that I’d been bound with some kind of divine geas.

There were several things horribly wrong with what had just happened.

I’d just agreed to do something I might not be capable of doing and the consequences would hurt far more than just me if I failed.

Moreover, I’d just agreed to hand over someone to an angry visage who might have nothing to do with his brother’s actual disappearance. Vera had stabbed me in the back a little, but she didn’t exactly deserve a visage’s anger if she hadn’t been involved — and I didn’t see much chance of her surviving either way.

I had a pretty good idea of where to find Vera, or at least a place to start. That inventor I’d seen months earlier was named Aloras Corrington. The likelihood of there being multiple people in the city with the surname Corrington, both from Caelford, that were completely unrelated... well,chances were slim.

That was the worst part of all. I knew that because it was fairly obvious — and that meant other people would have figured it out, too. Katashi had told me directly that higher ups in the city knew about this already. The chances that no one in their inner circle had considered asking another Corrington about Vera’s location was also extraordinarily low.

Which meant, more than likely, that someone with power was deliberately hiding her.

I felt my hand burning deeper as Katashi’s wings stretched — and he flew into the cloud of winged figures above, and then through them toward the top of the tower.

They followed immediately, soaring skyward until they disappeared from view.

And as I glanced toward the city, I saw the Mizuchi’s massive form dislodge itself from another building to soar upward toward the sky.

Katashi had kept his side of the bargain. I wasn’t so sure I’d be able to keep mine.

