CHAPTER XI — ENCHANTMENT

Professor Conway looked exhausted. He’d lost the usual effortless spring to his movements and deep bags were visible under his eyes, even from where I was sitting in the third row of the class.

“Since our last class was interrupted by an unsightly incident,” he began, not needing to explain to anyone what incident he was referring to, “I believe it would be pertinent to pick up where we left off. That said, our missed time will need to be covered to ensure we can cover the entire syllable, and I’m confident few of you would want an extra day of class. Thus, I will be consolidating the second half of our last lecture with today’s discussion. I will only have time to touch on each subject briefly.”

Conway pulled a chair behind the lectern and sat down, something I’d never seen him do in any of his previous classes. He was generally one of our most physical professors, always moving, frequently drawing diagrams.

It had been a full week since our last class had been interrupted. Was that still what was bothering him, or was it something else?Did he know something that we didn’t?I didn’t have enough information to speculate in any detail. I tried to push the questions out of my mind and put some effort into listening to the lecture.

“There are two main things that set the attunements apart from one another. The first of these factors is that each attunement gives you access to additional types of mana.”

Normally, this would be when he’d stand up and start drawing on the board, but — he didn’t this time. He just glanced around the classroom, then continued to speak. “As you already know, everyone has gray mana, and that gray mana has different properties depending on where you draw it from in the body. There are eight other types of mana that attunements on Valia can control. Every individual attunement gives you access to two of the eight.”

He paused for a moment, taking a drink from a glass of water. “We have eight attunements in Valia. Every attunement has a primary mana type and a secondary mana type that it provides. The primary mana type tends to be easier to use, but nevertheless you will find some people who focus on the secondary type.”

“For example, as a Guardian, my primary mana type is Enhancement. This type of mana is typically used to bolster physical characteristics, but it can also be added to other spells in order to stabilize or improve their functions. A Guardian’s secondary mana type is life. Most Guardians only learn to use this to rapidly recover from injuries and exertion, but there are some unusual Guardians who have learned to manipulate life mana in a way similar to a Mender, giving them the ability to heal others. This is more common for Guardians with lung or heart marks.”

I nodded along with much of the class. This was interesting material; I knew that every attunement gave users new types of mana to work with, but I hadn’t realized that it was always two types.

Actually, I was pretty sure it wasn’t. Didn’t Elementalists have three types of spells?On a rare whim, I stood up to ask a question.

Professor Conway turned his head toward me. “Yes, Master Cadence?”

Dozens of heads turned toward me. I froze up for a moment before taking a breath and regaining my composure. “Don’t Elementalists have three types of spells? Fire, air, and lightning?”

“Ah, a good question. You’re getting a bit ahead of me; that would get into the second distinguishing characteristic of each attunement. You may sit down.”

I sat.

Conway continued. “The second thing that sets each attunement apart is how their two types of mana can be combined to create a unique result. For example, an Elementalist’s lightning is a combination of air mana, fire mana, and a bit of gray mana that serves to keep the mixture from detonating. Every attunement derives a unique function from the combination of two mana types that their attunement provides.”

Another student stood up. “If I got fire and air mana from two different attunements, could I still combine them to make lightning?”

That’s a way better question than the one I asked.

“Yes,” Conway responded, “In that case, you most likely could. Some of the so-called ‘unique’ characteristics of each attunement can be achieved in that way, but there may be exceptions. Some combinations of multiple attunements are so rare that we have not been able to prove if they can becombined at all.”

I scratched my chin, wondering which combinations were the rarest — and how I might obtain some of them in the future. Would it be possible to get four attunements with completely different mana types and cover all the types of mana? I’d never heard of anyone with that many attunements... aside from the visages, of course. And possibly Keras?I still had no idea how Keras was as powerful as he seemed to be.

“I’ve already mentioned that the Guardian’s most unique characteristic is our ability to control our shroud immediately. Today, we’ll go over the mana types and characteristics for each attunement. This will be a brief overview of each type. More details can be found in your books.”

Conway rubbed his forehead and sighed, then pushed himself out of the chair and walked over to the chalk board. I was glad to see him up and moving again, at least, even if he did look exhausted.

He drew the Elementalist Attunement symbol first.

“As Master Cadence mentioned, the Elementalist commands fire and air mana. Their unique characteristic is the ability to combine these two types of mana to form lightning, which is often considered the most formidable form of attack magic. While fire spells are often popular for being able to cover large areas with a single spell, lightning is generally preferable in duels. It’s too fast for most attuned to defend against it.”

Unless you’re Marissa, I remembered with a grin. She was amazing. “Next is the Diviner.” He drew another symbol.

“They primarily use mental mana and focus on information gathering spells. Their secondary mana type is enhancement, which in their case is usually used to improve concentration, retain memories, and empower spells to break through anti-divination defenses. Diviners are unique in their abilityto create memory crystals, objects that can store a copy of someone’s memories. These are extraordinarily useful for both investigation and communication.”

Huh. Those did sound useful.

“Diviners are commonly confused with similar attunements from other regions. Diviners tend to focus on learning and preserving raw information. The Analyst Attunement, found among our allies in Caelford, is focused more on enhancing the senses and digging deeper into existing knowledge. The Seer Attunement from Dalenos is focused on remotely viewing distant locations, something only the most experienced Diviners can even attempt.”

I loved hearing about the analogues to our attunements in other cultures. I knew there were similar attunements in other kingdoms, but I didn’t know exactly how close they were. I resolved to pick up a book on the subject sometime in the second semester when I had a bit more free time.

“Next, the Shaper.”

He drew an all-too-familiar symbol representing the attunement I’d always wanted.

I was starting to work through my bitterness about it. I was actually enjoying learning about enchanting, but there was a part of me that still wondered if I had failed by not earning the attunement my father wanted me to.

“The Shaper’s primary mana type is earth, and their secondary type is transference. While they are best known for being able to manipulate existing spells and reshape mana, this is not actually their unique capability. It is merely a consequence of their capable use of transference mana. Instead, their unique ability is to spontaneously construct and manipulate objects made out of mana.”

“While attunements from other kingdoms with earth mana can create solid objects, they lack the Shaper’s flexibility to create, move, and reshape such an object instantly. Since Shapers practice this process so frequently, they are also generally the best at reshaping and altering other spells by using their transference mana. This makes Shapers devastating in mage against mage combat.”

The professor continued with another drawing.

“Next, the Shadow. They are the only local attunement capable of using umbral mana — more commonly just called ‘shadow mana’. This is used for concealment, as well as dampening the senses of others. Their secondary mana type is enhancement, which they use in conjunction with their umbral mana to enhance their physical characteristics and senses. This unique pairing of mana types allows the Shadow to create solid illusions, making the Shadow more dangerous than most illusion-focused attunements.”

He turned back toward the class. “It’s worth being aware that a good deal of our testing at this school requires illusions. While most of these are made by Shadows, we also employ a number of Illusionists. Illusionists are Dalenos’ answer to our Shadows. They are capable of creating much more sophisticated effects. For example, they are much better at concealing wide areas of terrain.”

“Edria and Caelford have attunements that alter the mind, rather than simply creating visible images. Edrian Mesmers can alter emotions and perceptions. They often use this to lure others into trusting them. They are also capable of making others ignore their presence by tricking our minds into believing they are a harmless part of the background.”

Conway took a breath. “Caelford’s equivalents are Controllers. We have a few Controllers on campus for specific tests. Controllers typically can only affect one person at a time, but they are capable of directly influencing someone else’s behavior. For this reason, Controllers are commonly employed for trials and interrogation. In your second year, you will work with Controllers to learn how to resist magical compulsion.”

That sounded like an interesting exercise… and an attunement I never wanted to go up against.

Conway drew another symbol.

“Menders are perhaps the best known of all of Valia’s attuned. Their primary mana type is life, but it is their secondary mana type — earth — that helps distinguish them from other healing attuned. While there are several attunements that can heal flesh and muscle, only Menders have the combination of mana types necessary to heal broken bones. The ability to treat broken bones makes Menders popular all over Kaldwyn. In the Six Years War, Menders wore unique uniforms that allowed them to traverse battlefields unharmed, offering succor to both sides.”

I’d be shocked if no one ever used a Mender uniform to infiltrate enemy lines. Interesting.

Professor Conway drew the next symbol.

It might have been my imagination, but it looked like his hand was trembling. “Summoners. Among the most unusual of attunements. They utilize air and transference mana as means for transportation-focused magic. While this can be used to summon creatures, their name is somewhat misleading, as there are other attunements that are capable of moving creatures from place to place.”

“Their ability is to form lasting bonds with monsters, which provide the Summoner with unique capabilities — including the ability to conjure copies of that monster that follow their commands. These bonds extract a toll on the Summoner, however. Every bond the Summoner maintains takes up a portion of the Summoner’s mana supply, leaving that mana unavailable while the bond is retained.”

I followed the explanation with little trouble. I knew most of it already, but it was interesting to hear Conway’s perspective.

He drew the most interesting rune — my own — last.

“Enchanters are the foundation of our technological progress. Their primary mana type is transference, followed by mental mana. They are able to use this combination to transfer mana into and out of objects, something no other attunement is capable of doing directly. There are other attunements with similar functions, but none with the flexibility to manipulate any form of mana into an item. Thus, they are perhaps the single greatest reason that Valia continues to rival much larger kingdoms, such as Edria and Dalenos, as a military power. Every citizen in our kingdom benefits from enchantments, from the environmental barrier over our city to rain-producing rods on our farmlands.”

That... actually sounded pretty amazing.

I left that day’s class feeling better about my attunement than I ever had, and more motivated than ever to get some real enchanting work done.

It was time to finally put some time and effort into learning how to be an Enchanter.

***By the end of the ninth week of classes, each of my walls, my roof, and my ceiling had a protection enchantment. The metal chain on the door had another protection enchantment.

I couldn’t have possibly afforded the materials for that many enchantments, but I didn’t have to. I had the requisite types of mana to charge the runes myself. I still wasn’t comfortable using my mental mana, but I’d gotten more used to converting the mana in my hand into a usable form. That was slow and inefficient, so I used a couple mana crystals to speed up the process. All in all, it cost me about eight coins to finish warding the room. Not a bad deal.

The types of enchantments I could do on my own were pretty limited. I was only capable of converting my mana into the types my body already naturally used. If I wanted to convert mana from my hand into mental mana, I’d focus on the mana in my hand and “command” it to change into the type of mana I already had in my head. It was pretty awkward at first, but I acclimated to it over time.

Even for the types of mana I was able to provide on my own, I couldn’tmanage very powerful enchantments. I needed to infuse all the necessary mana into a rune in a single session or the enchantment would fail. That meant I was limited to enchantments with relatively low mana requirements.

The next thing I worked on was an anti-teleportation enchantment that covered my entire room. Initially, I’d assumed defending against teleportation would be difficult, but it turned out that teleportation itself was so complex that a ward just needed to throw it off slightly to make it fail. My particular defensive rune would just nudge the teleport slightly off course, specifically to outside of my room rather than inside it.

None of those defenses would be sufficient against a foe on Professor Orden’s level, but the next time she examined the place, I’d be a lot better prepared.

I finished four of Jin’s item requests in the same time frame. They were all pretty simple.

The first was a bracelet that could make him invisible for about a minute before it needed to be recharged.

Next, another bracelet that could make an illusory duplicate of him that moved about ten feet to his right and mirrored his movements. It had great synergy with the invisibility bracelet.

Third, a necklace that could be activated to dampen any sounds he made.

It’d work for suppressing the noise from firing his guns, too.

The last was a ring he could use to generate a small illusion based on what he was thinking about. I was particularly proud of this one; it was the closest thing to actually mimicking the function of an attunement of any of the ones I’d built. It had a great deal more flexibility than the others.

I made him a stronger shield sigil, too, which he hadn’t requested. He accepted the gift with a surprising degree of gratitude, bowing deeply at the waist.

“You’ve gone beyond what I requested. Thank you.” When he straightened, his eyes shone with an infectious good cheer.

He delivered more supplies to me shortly after that.

I was getting more confident in my overall enchanting abilities at that point, so I decided to make a couple more items for myself. My resources were still pretty limited. Jin had helped considerably, but he was still only giving me small and medium cores, and the majority of them were a handful of specific types: mental mana, image mana, transference mana, and gray mana.

The attunements he wanted me to “fake” for him were the Shadow, Diviner, and Guardian. Since he was giving me “extras” of the same materials used for those, I could build some additional items of those same types formyself.

I headed toward the old university grounds to pay Lars a visit at the Climber’s Court. I had some ideas I wanted to ask him about.

From what I’d heard, the original campus had been dedicated to direct study of the tower, so it had been as close as physically possible. After the first time that monsters had escaped the tower and attacked the nearby students, the old university had been evacuated and the new campus had been built.

Funny, considering the monsters had zero difficulty in flying over the new university’s defenses and getting to us.

The older buildings had been repurposed for any number of different things. Overflow housing for students that didn’t fit in the dorms, a few scattered remaining research facilities, and dozens of buildings dedicated to serving the needs of climbers who entered and exited the tower regularly.

The Climber’s Court thrived on that close proximity to the tower. Other magic shops might have been cheaper, but Lars was convenient.

The front room was littered with tables and shelves carrying dozens of items. Prices weren’t listed; Lars consulted a list behind the counter before buying or selling anything. I assumed that was a tactical move so that he could vary his prices on a per-customer basis.

The retired climber was up on a ladder when I came in, putting a vase on the top of a bookshelf that was laden with non-book items. I didn’t know why anyone would ever want to put a vase on the top of a shelf, but he managed to get it up there without incident, waving to me as I closed the door behind me.

It was early in the day, but there were already a couple other customers. A boy with glasses was thumbing through a stack of books on a table on the left side, muttering something to himself. A blonde woman was tossing a glowing dagger up and down, apparently testing the weight.

But it was the masked swordsman that caught my attention.

I felt a moment of panic before I processed that he wasn’t Keras — his hair was shorter and he looked closer to my own age and build. The mask was the wrong color, too. He carried an impractically huge sword like it was weightless. With the blade rested against his shoulder, it almost brushed the ceiling of the shop.

The swordsman had a blonde-haired doll in a powder-blue dress poking out of a pocket in his cloak. That was unusual enough in itself, but I could have sworn that when I looked away and looked back the doll’s expression had changed.

Is there something about this tower that attracts eccentric masked swordsmen?I shook my head to dismiss the thought. I had bigger things to worry about.

“Corin!” Lars closed the distance between us in a few steps, slapping me on the back. “My favorite customer!”

I definitely wasn’t his favorite customer.

“How can I help you, lad?” He had a cheerful grin behind his voluminous red beard.

“Thinking about picking up some more supplies, and I was hoping you could give me some advice on what might be useful in the tower.”

Lars nodded knowingly. “Ah, sure, sure. Getting prepared for your practical next week?”

I blinked. “My what, exactly?”

“You don’t know?” Lars let out a deep belly laugh. “Oh, goddess, boy, you’re killing me. Your first practical exam is next week and you didn’t know?”

I drew back. “I don’t know what you’re talking about; we’re not supposed to make our first trip into the tower until the end of the year.”

He nodded, still chuckling. “Right, right, course not. But you get to go into the fake tower next week.”

Oh.

That made a lot of sense.

I knew the academy had a building they used to set up tests that were similar to the rooms in the Serpent Spire. My brother had taken a mock Judgment in a similar facility for practice, but I’d never had the chance.

When I’d heard we were going to be having tests periodically throughout the school year, I’d assumed they were the traditional written kind.

But of course not. Not at a school where professors liked to ambush me in my room in the middle of the night. No, nothing could be simple here.

Did the others already know? Was I the only one who’d so thoroughly misinterpreted things?I’d find out, but first, I needed to get myself prepared. I was nowhere near ready for another encounter with the tower — real or otherwise.

I had planned to start gradually putting together an inventory of magical items that would be useful for going through the tower in the middle of the year, but if I had to plan for next week, I’d need to prioritize whatever my first items were much more carefully.

I needed to make sure I scored well enough on the test to make it through the rest of the year. If I failed out, it would be years before I could get another chance to start climbing the tower. I couldn’t afford to wait that long.

“Right, um, of course. So, I need to get ready for that, and I could usesome ideas.”

Lars walked over to one of the nearby walls, gesturing for me to follow. “I’ve got just the thing.” He lifted an axe off of where it hung on the wall, running a hand affectional over the surface of the grip. “This here is Maverly. She got me through some of my toughest scrapes. Did I tell you about the time with the Baren Hydra on the third floor?” He swept the blade through the air, just a few inches from me. “There I was, neck-deep in goblins, when suddenly—”

I smiled, but waved my hands for him to stop. I actually enjoyed Lars’ stories, but I knew that one.

Also, he was trying to sell me on one of the worst items in the shop. And it was out of my price range.

“Nothing against Maverly, but I’ve heard that one. Also, I’ve already got a magic weapon, and I’m getting rather attached to it.”

I patted the hilt of the sword on my hip. Lars looked at it, his eyes nearly squinting, then flashing wide open with surprise. “That isn’t... Show me the blade on that, lad.”

He hung Maverly back on the wall as I drew the weapon. I held it up for him to see.

“Well, now there’s something I never thought to see. Selys-Lyann, the Goddess’ Tears.”

My eyes went from him to the sword and back. “You recognize this thing?”

He sucked a breath in through his teeth, nodding. “Put that away before you hurt yourself.” He himself was standing a cautious distance from its reach.

I sheathed the sword carefully. “...What can you tell me about it?”

I briefly entertained the idea that I was holding some sort of legendary sword that could only be wielded by a chosen hero.

“That sword is marked with a terrible curse.”

Yeah, that sounds more like my luck. Of course it is.

“What sort of curse?” I asked, shoulders slumped in resignation.

“Once, that sword was wielded by a great warrior, who loved the goddess deeply. And the goddess loved her in return, although the warrior would never know it. The warrior sought the apex of the towers, as many do, to pray to the goddess to descend from the sky so they might be together.”

I listened carefully.

Lars leaned up against a nearby table. “The warrior was a Soulblade, one of the attunements from the north. She was unparalleled in skill and grace, able to achieve marvels with even a humble blade. The warrior made her wayto near the top of the tower and stood against her final foe, Mizuchi, a child of the God Serpent itself.”

The Hero’s End.

I felt a chill run down my spine.

“The warrior’s battle against Mizuchi raged for hours, but though the warrior was greatly skilled, she was of humble birth. Her sword, a simple thing of iron, could not pierce Mizuchi’s scales, and though she tried to strike for a weakness, she could find none. Finally, she sought to block a blow from the guardian beast, but her blade snapped in twain. Mizuchi’s fangs pierced her heart. As the warrior lay dying, she called out to the goddess, the only being she had ever loved.”

“The goddess descended from the skies, but the warrior’s eyes were already closed.”

I lowered my eyes. The story didn’t sound true — how would anyone know the tale if the warrior had died alone atop the tower — but it still affected me.

“As Selys held the warrior’s body, the goddess cried for the loss of a champion, slain by the weakness of her weapon. The goddess’ tears flowed to the blade, mingling with the hero’s blood, and forging the blade anew.”

I glanced down at the hilt of the sword, then back to Lars.

“They say that the sword has passed through many hands over time, each pursuing a worthy goal. Selys-Lyann’s blade will never break again, and she cuts with the ice of Selys’ tears, but beware: she is a traitorous blade. Each time a hero wielding Selys-Lyann’s has come a hair’s breadth from their goal, they have failed — often betrayed by one of their trusted companions. And so Selys will descend again from the sky, and her tears will wipe the blade clean... until it is claimed by the next hero, destined to die by their own blade’s curse.”

I nearly took the sword off my belt and abandoned it that very moment. “So,” he continued, drawing that one word out in a low voice, “if you’llbe needing an anti-curse sigil, I’ve got a few for sale at very reasonable—” He stopped, interrupted by the single raised finger I’d held in front of him.

I took a moment to fix him with a disbelieving stare. Then, “...Did you just make that entire thing up in order to sell me an anti-curse item?”

Lars let out another deep laugh, slapping me on the arm. “Not all of it, lad. Not all of it. It really is cursed, or so they say. But I don’t put too much stock into curses. They rarely work the way people think. Never can be too safe, though...”

And that’s how I spent nearly half my savings on an anti-curse trinket that I suspected had no function at all.

***I returned home a little bit shaken from the story, but considerably better equipped. The anti-curse trinket was a feather, supposedly taken from a gryphon, which I attached to the Selys-Lyann’s hilt. I’d look the weapon up later to see if I could verify which parts of the story, if any, were real.

Beyond that, I’d found several things I wanted at the shop, including a bag that diminished the weight of objects inside, a pair of boots that would increase the height of my jumps, a bracelet of shielding that would recharge itself over time, and a dueling cane that was enchanted to project lightning rather than gray mana.

I could afford precisely zero of those things.

The boots were the cheapest at only two hundred silver sigils.

I had seventeen silver sigils left after purchasing the anti-curse trinket. I quickly found that any permanent magical item was out of my price range — but that had some advantages, too. As soon as I could make permanent magical items, I could probably sell them for a handy profit.

I decided I wanted to try to make a permanent item, and thus, I needed materials.

I had a few things I could already work with: two lesser gray crystals from the slimes; one lesser earth crystal from the barghensi; and the one large crystal of unknown function that Professor Orden had given me.

I also had the handful of crystals that Jin had given me as payment for my help with his own enchantments. I’d used a couple on the enchantments for my room, though. My remaining resources from Jin consisted of two medium gray crystals, three lesser gray crystals, one medium mind crystal, and one medium transference crystal.

I picked up a few crystals at Lars’ place and asked him about their costs, bought one, and then made myself a list of his costs for future reference.

Lesser (Class 1) Gray — 3 Silver Lesser (Class 1) Other — 4 Silver Medium (Class 2) Gray — 12 Silver Medium (Class 2) Other — 16 Silver Greater (Class 3) Gray — 120 Silver Greater (Class 3) Other — 160 SilverSuperior (Class 4) — Varies by type, quoted me 600 Silver for a Class 4 Transference crystalThe classification numbers apparently were more important than the actual physical size — more powerful crystals were denser with mana, notnecessarily larger. Most people still used terms like “lesser” and “greater” for short-hand, but as an Enchanter, I’d need to pay closer attention to the technical classifications as I got more experienced.

There were at least six classes of gems, but apparently anything more powerful than Class 3 was extraordinarily rare. From the prices, I sincerely doubted I’d be working with anything higher than Class 2 in the immediate future.

I found it deeply ironic that our attunements were named after types of gems, but these magical gems weren’t. I guessed it was probably because of color confusion. A Class 1 gem might be blue if it contained water mana, so calling it a “mana carnelian” would be confusing.

The one I decided to pick up was a medium transference crystal. Almost every enchantment I’d found would require at least two crystals of the same type, and I was leaning toward a transference enchantment. I managed to barter him down to 9 sigils, leaving me with a single coin to my name.

When that was done, I went to the Divinatory and asked them to identify the large crystal Professor Orden had given me.

The answer was...unexpected.

“That’s a Class 2 universal mana core.” I blinked. “Universal? You mean gray?”

The Diviner shook his head. “Nope. Universal. It’s much rarer. You can channel any kind of mana into it and it’ll change into a crystal of that type. Don’t waste that thing, it’s rare; only a few of the strongest monsters in the tower have universal cores. How’d you get it?”

“Uh... gift from a teacher.”

“Wow. That teacher must really like you. Those things are expensive.” Huh.

I didn’t really know what to make of that. I bid the Diviner goodbye and headed back to my room.

Having a universal core vastly broadened my options — if I was willing to use it immediately. No wonder Professor Orden already thought she’d given me enough resources. This crystal itself was worth at least as much as one of the greater crystals in the shop, and probably vastly more, due to its flexibility.

I could only change it into a few types of things myself, but for something like this, I’d be willing to put in the effort to ask a friend to shift it to a different type.

What could I accomplish with a single Class 2 mana core of any type I wanted?Shuffling though my books, I came up with a pretty simple answer:nothing more than I could have made before.

Using Class 2 cores was at least Carnelian-level, possibly higher. Attempting a Carnelian-level enchantment at my skill level had a huge possibility of failure — which would cost me the crystal — and possibly a disastrous backlash if I made a bad enough mistake.

I tucked the crystal away in the relative safety of a secret compartment in the bottom of the wooden crate where I kept my laundry.

While putting the crystal away in there, I found my other hidden item, the flask of water from the attunement chamber. I hadn’t forgotten about it exactly, but I also hadn’t done anything with it as quickly as I had planned.

I turned on my attunement to look at the flask. The water inside still glowed a bright, ice-blue hue under my vision. The same hue, in fact, that I saw on my own attunement if I looked in the mirror while it was active.

I’d promised myself I’d do something to preserve the water in there, but I’d procrastinated on it pretty severely. Grudgingly, I spent most of the day studying enchantments to preserve potions. Fortunately, I was able to find a few that only required gray mana.

I marked the flask’s exterior with ink, the easiest way to make a rune on something made of leather. Then I spent the evening putting two quick enchantments on the flask. One to preserve the liquid, and the second being a simple shield sigil like I was using on my walls. I didn’t want a stray arrow puncturing the thing.

I was getting to the point where I had a lot of enchantments to maintain. None of the enchantments I’d made thus far were the permanent, self- sustaining kind — those were too expensive. Even the items I was making for Jin would have to be recharged, but he seemed confident he could get them refilled without people asking too many questions. I didn’t ask how.

I ran into Sera while I was shopping for supplies for my permanent enchantment.

She fell into step by my side, walking with me to the shop. “You sign up for a team for the practicals yet?”

How does everyone know about these other than me? “No. I wasn’t even aware we had teams.”

Sera paused in her step, staring at me for a second. “Seriously? I was wondering why you hadn’t asked me to join you, and I was feeling a little left out... but you didn’t even know?”

I shook my head. “Is this in one of our thousands of school documents somewhere?”

I had read those. Or skimmed them. Skimmed most of them. Parts. The first few pages, at least.

“Yes, but they’ve also been all over the newspapers. And they’re the only thing half the students have been talking about for weeks!”

Oh, talking to people. That’s a thing I should do again sometime.

“Right,” I said sheepishly. “What’s the deal?”

“Teams of five, to get ready for the first tower incursion.” Her reply was instant. “I’ve got Patrick on my team already.”

Patrick was an unsurprising choice — he was both talented and very easy to work with. “What about Roland?”

Sera made an ugly scowl. “He had ‘other obligations’.” Huh. That would be interesting if I actually cared.

This was giving me an idea, though. “You ask any physical fighters yet?” She shook her head.

“Okay, you sold me. I’ll join your team... if you let me bring a friend.” She drew back and crossed her arms. “Who said I want you?”

I gave her a knowing look. “I’m not going to beg.”

“Fine, fine. You can join us. And you can pick someone. But get Jin, too, yeah?”

She wants Jin on the team? That was interesting. I would have expected her to go with any of the other students we’d known for years.

“I think I can sell him on the idea. Where do I sign up?”

“Oh, don’t worry about that. I’ll take care of it. I’ve known how to forge your signature for years.”

“Knowledge is distinct from mastery. If your idea of my signature is anything like your homages to the great artists of—”

“I was six when I drew those, Corin. Six! Are you never going to let that go?”

“Not if you keep giving me such perfect reactions.” “Ugh.”

We made our way to the shops without any further incidents, and she helped me pick out some of the items I needed. Fortunately, I’d just gotten my weekly stipend that morning; otherwise I’d have been begging Sera for a loan. I was only going to make one or two items immediately, but I picked up a handful of mundane accessories for future enchantments for myself, as well as the next few things Jin was going to need.

I had a lot of options in mind for my first item, even with my relatively limited resources.

In terms of function, I had a few main things I wanted to focus on.

First, I needed to make sure I stayed intact. My shield sigil was a good start for this, especially because I could recharge it myself, but eventually I wanted something that was stronger and wouldn’t require any upkeep frommy side.

It also had a clear weakness to kinetic energy. Most shielding spells seemed to dampen the force of physical attacks, but failed to stop them entirely. I’d need to research how to counter that. Maybe a transference-based shield spell?I also needed more raw offensive power. When Professor Orden had broken into my room, her tunic had been able to effortlessly absorb my dueling cane’s blasts. Maybe she wasn’t a fair bar to set. I couldn’t expect to beat opponents with Emerald-level enchantments that caught me by surprise in a fair fight, but even my own humble shield sigil was capable of soaking about fifteen hits from a standard dueling cane before failing.

Presumably, that was why Lord Teft had felt comfortable letting us throw spells at each other on our first day of class. The sigil defenses were more than capable of stopping anything your average student could have produced. Sera’s summoning-based attack spell might have broken through a shield, but I really had no idea. It was visually impressive, but I didn’t know how much punch those shards of ice had.

If I couldn’t break a simple shield, I couldn’t be expected to handle any monster of significant power, either. My sword might have done the job, but I still didn’t know exactly how it worked, and I wasn’t going to get into close range with anything threatening if I could avoid it. I had just enough sword training to know that there were plenty of people who were better.

Information gathering was another high priority. I still had access to multiple items that I couldn’t even properly identify, which meant that I couldn’t use them to the height of their capabilities. Besides identifying items, I also wanted anything that would help give me clues on how to solve the multitude of puzzles inside the tower, or otherwise help me make my way through. Maybe I could eventually find spells to locate other people? I’d need to do some research on that. I knew practically nothing about the capabilities and limitations of divination.

Finally, I wanted some items to improve my mobility. Things that would let me safely traverse tower rooms with gaping chasms and spinning blades. Teleportation was the most obvious choice, followed by things that would simply increase my speed or agility. Flight could be useful, too, if I could manage it.

From those broad options, I came up with a short list of things I could actually make. A better shield sigil was an option, and there were types listed in the Advanced Artifice book — which I probably needed to return to the library at some point — that were designed to stop kinetic attacks. They were all listed as at least “Carnelian” level, but they didn’t look difficult.

In terms of firepower, there were a lot of options. Mages, unsurprisingly, loved researching new and exciting ways to explode things just as much as anyone else. I found a lot of runes dedicated to variations on dueling canes — ones that fired elemental bolts instead of gray mana, for example, or that had specialized enhancements for attacks. Bolts that homed in on enemies, for example, or blasted through basic shielding.

A lot of these options were probably within my capabilities, but they were also common, and that meant there would be accessible defenses against them. They’d still be perfectly viable in the tower, but I wanted something I could use if I was attacked by another human that was potentially more experienced than I was. That meant something less obvious... maybe an enchanted ring?I shelved that idea for the moment, looking at the other categories.

For information gathering, I found several enchantments for interfacing with other enchantments, like how my sigil detected other projectiles. I found very few detection spells that could be used on their own, though. Most of the divination enchantments I’d looked up for Jin were only useful in specific situations — things like seeing in the dark, detecting ambient mana, and seeing through walls. I really wanted something that would give me information about magical items, but I didn’t find anything like that in my books. I’d have to ask a more experienced Enchanter about it later.

Mobility was almost entirely out of my reach. I could make an enchantment to increase the height I could jump, but not a lot else. Even increasing my running speed would require several runes I didn’t have listed in my books. Apparently, just adding mobility by itself would add force to my motions without any stability, so I’d basically be blasting myself forward with each step. Hilarious, but impractical.

So, all in all, blowing things up seemed best.

I’d picked up a couple cheap rings, but a bit of study told me they wouldn’t work on their own. An item’s mana capacity was based on its size and materials, and a simple metal band couldn’t hold much of anything.

Gems could hold a great deal, but there were two problems with that. One, I couldn’t afford any decent gems. Two, I didn’t know how to inscribe them with runes properly. Etching metal was easy. Drawing on the surface of a diamond? I wasn’t sure, but that sounded a lot harder.

So, what else was easily concealed and potentially a good source for directing attack magic? Necklaces had the same problems as rings, and also the magic would emanate directly from the item. I couldn’t aim my neck very well. Really, that last part meant I needed either something hand-held or something on my hand. I was back to dueling canes...or maybe a glove?Standard cloth and leather gloves had terrible mana capacities, too, as it turned out. There were specialized types of materials that could hold a lot of mana, but they were well outside my price range.

Gauntlets, on the other hand? Those could hold a fair bit of mana, and I could easily afford a pair. I was worried that a traditional gauntlet would impede my ability to manipulate anything with my hands, though, so I settled on a demi-gauntlet that I’d wear with a leather glove underneath.

“So, whatcha doing?”

I’d made the mistake of asking Sera to watch me work on this enchantment, since it was technically Carnelian-level and I wasn’t precisely allowed to be trying it yet. There was only a tiny chance I’d detonate the gauntlet in the process, and I was pretty sure my shield would save me. Probably.

I sat on the floor, laying the gauntlet down flat on my “enchanting tile”, a square of wood that I used to center whatever I was working on. I laid down my enchanting book on the left side of the tile and my measuring implements on the right.

The exact size of a rune wasn’t important. You could make a tiny rune on the side of a jewel if you knew how. The proportions and angles of lines on each symbol were supposedly relevant to the function, though, so I’d have to measure those. I didn’t know how exact I needed to be, but I was going to take my time on this one.

Before I started, I used four clamps to attach the demi-gauntlet to the wooden board. It moved a little if I lifted the wood, but it was pretty steady once I put it down.

“I’m making a gauntlet that will serve as an emergency weapon. I don’t know what I’m calling it yet. Blasting gauntlet, maybe? Power glove?”

Sera snorted. “Power glove sounds pretty bad.”

“I’ll think of something better. Anyway, I’m going to try to give it two different functions: raw mana projection and kinetic energy projection. In theory, I’ll be able to use one at a time or both at once. This is going to make the enchanting process a bit complicated.”

“Okay.” She sat down across from me. “And I’m here to...?” “Go get help if I explode?”

“Oh, got it. Can I laugh at you first?”

“Heh. You’ve never asked for permission before.” “Right you are. Okay, let the fireworks begin.”

I rolled my eyes. It comforted me to have Sera around in case this went badly, even if she’d never let me forget about it. Bringing a Mender would have probably been more logical, but I didn’t know any of them very well yet.

In retrospect, maybe “healing” should have been on my list of things to consider for enchantments, but I was committed by that point.

“All right, first thing I’m doing is setting up capacity runes for each type of mana. These prevent the gauntlet from containing more than a certain amount of mana of that type.”

I opened up a container of paint and dipped my brush in it. I’d write the runes out in paint first, verify the dimensions, and then etch into the metal using my other tools if the rune had been drawn correctly. More experienced Enchanters could jump straight to etching, but I was working with runes I’d only practiced on paper — the risk was too great.

I drew three capacity runes: one for gray mana; one for transference; and one for mind. I checked them, wiped the mind one, and redid it twice more before I was satisfied.

“What’s the third one for?”

I pointed at the mind one. “This one is going to connect to a rune that detects when I want the gauntlet to activate. If it was like a cane, it’d just activate whenever I was in contact with an activation rune. Which would be all the time, since I’m going to be wearing it.”

“It senses your thoughts? Isn’t that really advanced?”

I shook my head. “No, it’s not sensing my thoughts exactly... it just waits for me to send a bit of mental mana into the rune, then it activates the other rune functions.”

“Oh, that makes sense.”

I flashed her a quick smile, then refocused. “Going to have to be quiet for a second for this part, I need to concentrate while I engrave.”

I adjusted my clamps to make sure the gauntlet was going to stay where it was and picked up the engraving rod. It was one of the simplest Enchanter implements, and the first one I’d learned to use. It looked like an ink pen with a tiny gemstone on the tip and a few runes written on the side. I pressed the activation rune, which caused the tip of the rod to vibrate rapidly. When I pressed against the metal, the vibrating tip cut into the surface of the gauntlet.

Slowly, I traced the painted runes. It only took a few minutes, but I was sweating by the time I turned the engraver off.

“Okay, first step done.”

I set the engraver down and used a pair of wet and dry cloths to wipe off the remaining paint. After that, I reviewed the runes. The lengths and angles looked fine, as far as I could tell.

“Not bad. So, you can enchant it now?”

I chuckled. “That’s three runes out of twelve. Next, I put in the recharging runes. They’ll let it draw on ambient mana to refill each mana type up to the capacity over time. Then, I put in the function runes, the ones that actually make the item do anything. After that, it’s the activation runes, which tell it when to do it.”

Sera frowned. “Don’t you only need one activation rune? The mind one?”

I blinked. “I mean... I was going to make the mind rune activate the other two activation runes... but maybe I could skip that step?”

I paused for a minute, frowning as I considered. “I don’t actually know if one activation rune can trigger three functions or not. I could try—“Wait,” I interrupted my own train of thought. “I’m doing this all wrong. I need two different mind runes either way, or I’m going to always activate the gray and the transference runes at the same time.”

Sera leaned forward, looking at the gauntlet. “Yeah, but I still don’t see why you’d need other activation runes. You’re only activating it one way, yeah? Can’t you connect one mind rune to each function rune?”

“I’m not sure. That’s never how they show it in the introductory book...but to be fair, I skipped the intermediate ones and most of this comes from a more advanced book.”

She side-eyed me. “Maybe you’re thinking too much about what the book says and not enough about what makes sense.”

“I could look it up, I suppose.” I shook my head. “But I’d never get back to it on time for the tests if I stop now. I’ll finish this one the way I was planning to, but that is an interesting idea. It’d save me time and materials if it works. I’ll look it up later.”

She grinned at me. “Maybe for when you make me one.”

I found myself smiling back. “Sure,” I said. That was the first indication she’d given me that she was interested in one of my items. It was kind of nice. I liked feeling like I could do something useful. “As soon as you can afford one.”

“Charging your family? You cut deep, Corin. Here I am, risking my life— my very existence — to help make sure you finish your first itemproperly...”

“It’s not my first item, it’s my first high risk item. But your point is taken, Sera. I’ll make you something.”

She made a gesture of victory and I grinned as I resumed my work.

*** “All right, time to test this thing out.”

Fortunately, there was a whole section of buildings dedicated to enchanting, and a number of “gray chambers” set aside for testing new equipment. I hadn’t bothered to use one before, since my previous enchantments were so simplistic, but this probably warranted a degree of caution. Even if the gauntlet worked correctly, it was going to fire a blast of mana that was more powerful than any weapon I’d used before. Firing off bursts of energy in random places wasn’t exactly wise.

I signed the paperwork to use one of the chambers, and Sera and I stepped inside. We were assured that the chambers were monitored and that Menders would be close by if anything went wrong.

We stepped inside the assigned room.

It was small, about the same size as a single dorm room. The walls were gray stone. I didn’t recognize the type of stone... maybe that was the source of the name of the rooms? I activated my attunement, noting that the stone had a soft glow, but I didn’t see any runes on the inside of the room. If it had them, they’d done the smart thing and put them outside of the chamber. Otherwise, I’d have to guess the stone had inherent magical properties. Possibly both.

I turned the attunement back off. I was starting to get headaches more often, and I suspected the bright lights I was picking up with the attunement active were a part of that.

“So, these walls are designed to handle magical blasts?” Sera tapped a finger against the stone. “Seems like they’d be a good place for any of us to practice, really.”

I made a broad gesture with my hand. “Yeah, but there aren’t enough of them for all the students to use them. I imagine they’re expensive to make. The dueling grounds serve a similar function, but allow for larger groups to practice at a lower cost.”

“So, why not just test enchantments in one of the dueling fields?”

My laugh was sharp. “Because an instructor can probably repair the damage from a careless Elementalist. If an Enchanter makes a big enough mistake? You could probably wipe out a small town.”

Sera paused her inspection of the room and turned to me with a quizzical look. “How’s that possible? Wouldn’t the detonation be based on how much mana you put in it?”

“Normally, yeah. But remember what I said about capacity runes? Now, imagine I got that wrong. This gauntlet could probably hold about ten times the mana I’m putting into it before it explodes. Now, that’s nowhere near a town-level explosion. Maybe a building, at best.” I lifted my chin to scratch my neck, just to do something with my hand.

“But let’s say,” I continued, “you’ve got some fancy climber who wants a full suit of enchanted armor. It has to be good, so it’s made of a material that can absorb several times more mana than usual... khyonite or something. Now, someone makes a mistake on the capacity rune on that. Let’s say it’s twenty times the material of my gauntlet and the material can hold ten times more per area. So, two hundred times more mana. Two hundred times bigger explosion. That’d be a small town, I’d say.”

“That’s... kind of horrifying, actually.” Sera folded her arms. “So, these rooms let you run tests to make sure each rune is working right?”

“Actually, from what I understand, they’re more about containing the explosion if I did something horribly wrong.”

“Oh.” She paused and glanced from side-to-side. “I’m going to go stand outside now.”

I laughed again. “I’ll see you in a minute.”

She had a good point about checking each individual rune’s function, but I didn’t have a good way of doing that. A Diviner could, maybe... and that meant that I could potentially build a tool to do it myself, given time.

In the meantime, I could only test the whole, and that meant activating it.

I waited for Sera to get outside, then took a deep breath and sent a flicker of mana into the activation rune.

Then the world went white.

“...rin... Corin! Can you hear me? Wake up!”

Sera was standing over me. When did she get back in the room? Why was I lying down? I didn’t remember lying down.

Someone else was next to her. I frowned. It was another student, but I didn’t recognize her. She was tall, with dark yellow skin like Jin’s. She knelt down next to me, waving a hand over my head. A soft white glow enveloped my face, forcing my eyes shut. The soothing chill that came with the glow helped numb the pain in the back of my head... which I hadn’t realized was hurting until the chill came along.

Oh, I’m being healed, I realized. Which means I’m injured.

“I think I’m okay,” I mumbled.

“Don’t move,” the Mender instructed. “Don’t talk. Don’t do anything.” I complied. It was several minutes before she even let me talk.

“You’re lucky — your shield sigil absorbed the majority of the blast itself.

The explosion carried you into the wall, though, and you hit your head. The sigil looks to have softened that, too. I don’t see any fractures, or any internal bleeding. You’re very lucky. The next time you want to test an enchantment with an attack spell, you should have a more experienced Enchanter look it over first.”

That was true. I probably should have considered that. “Mm.” And after a few moments, I managed, “Thank you.”

The Mender looked to Sera. “He shouldn’t have any permanent damage. Can you accompany him back to his room? I need to go check on the other rooms.”

Sera nodded with an expression of deadly seriousness. “Of course.” The Mender left us alone.

“Uh, yeah, so that didn’t go as planned.” I tried to smile. My face felt... weird.

“I’m resisting the urge to smack you right now.” “Your willpower is, as always, admirable.”

Sera sighed, rolling her eyes. “Ugh. At least you didn’t break your snark.” “Oh, don’t worry about that. My snark is indestructible. It’s the core ofmy being, and quite possibly the universe as a whole.” “Arrogance, also intact. You think you can stand?”

I frowned, looking over the side of the bed. Everything was wobbly. Sera was especially wobbly. Why were we sailing? “No. I’m pretty sure that I’m a ‘no’ on that.”

“Fine.” Sera sat down next to me. “Never do that again.”

I couldn’t manage a nod; my neck was still feeling too stiff. “Right.”

Sera waited with me for as long as I needed. As it turned out, that was the rest of the night.

***It was two days before I was largely functional again. Sera kept a close eye on me the whole time, even coming by to bring me food when I was recovering in bed the day after the incident.

Much like a retainer might have, if I had any.

As it was, I was just grateful to have anyone to help me. I owed her one.

The explosion’s cause was fairly obvious. I’d somehow activated both the gray mana and the transference mana at the same time, and they’d mixed. As Lord Teft had told us, like deflects like, opposites nullify...and other mixes tended to explode. This was apparently one of the explodey kinds.

I didn’t see how I’d managed to activate both, though. I had fixed the obvious problem beforehand, thanks to Sera’s comment. I had two separate activation runes that led to each type of mana.

So, I took it to Professor Vellum, the most likely person to be able to diagnose the problem.

Her office was littered with... everything. Books. Unlabeled potion bottles. Children’s toys. Weapons. At least one very mean looking house cat. More potion bottles.

I barely managed to step over the mess at the entrance when I moved to hand her the gauntlet.

“You tried to use this? Goddess, child. You’re lucky to be alive at all. The rest of us might be less lucky for it, if you intend to keep being so reckless.”

I frowned. “I have two separate runes. How did the mana get mixed?” “Oh, dear child. Do you know how sensitive those activation runes youmade are? Take a look here.” She picked up something from the table — a wooden stick — and handed it to me. “What’s different about these runes and the ones you used?”

I glanced them over. “They’re, uh, completely different ones.” “Yes, of course. But what’s systemically different?”

Interestingly, much like my gauntlet, the stick had multiple activation runes, one on either end of the wood. Each connected via a line to another set of runes.

I was still looking when she spoke again.

“The circles, boy. The circles. Have you never seen a magic item before?” Oh.

The runes on the stick were circled.

Just like they were on my dueling cane, and my etching rod, and my engraving rod.

“...My books didn’t say anything about circles.”

“Of course not. Because you aren’t reading books about using multi- function enchantments or even basic attack enchantments, both of which are for second year students. Students that understand the fundamentals of how not to kill themselves. Goddess, child, what did you think the circles on your dueling cane were for?”

I winced. I’d skimmed through some of the second-year texts, but I hadn’t read them cover-to-cover. “I guess... I assumed they were cosmetic? They make the runes look more like buttons.”

“Like buttons.” Vellum let out a deep sigh. “Goddess, this generation. Please, let it be the last that I’m blessed with teaching.” She gestured to the stick. “Hand that back to me.”

I gave her the stick, and she handed the gauntlet back to me in exchange. “The circles are far from cosmetic. They’re boundaries. They prevent excess mana from escaping, and they also help to prevent the runes from beingaccidentally activated by ambient mana, or through other effects. They make it so the rune only activates when you put something inside the circle itself to feed it mana.”

“...Meaning that without them, my gauntlet could have triggered any number of different ways. If I walked into a mana-rich area that had the right type of mana in the air, or the gauntlet was hit by a spell...”

“Precisely. You’re lucky to have your head on your shoulders right now. You’re doubly lucky to have that hand. I’m not sure how you managed to keep it.”

“I was wearing a shield sigil.”

“Ah. At least you did something right, in that case.” She sighed. “Let me see the glove again.”

I handed it back to her. She frowned, shaking her head. “What gave you the idea for this contraption?”

I folded my arms. I really wasn’t enjoying being interrogated, but I didn’t exactly have any choice about answering. “It seems like there’s always something attacking me, and I’m never properly prepared. In the tower, in dueling class... Even in my bedroom.”

Professor Vellum snorted. “I heard about that. I don’t approve of Orden’s antics, but she is funny, at least. That’s better than I can say for most of our staff.”

I was less amused. “In virtually every encounter, I’ve been impossibly outclassed in combat. I considered other options — things to make me move faster, or block attacks — but this was what I had the materials for, and sometimes it’s necessary to have a strong enough weapon to deter your enemies.”

“I quite agree. But why not use a tested design? There are dozens, if not hundreds of designs for dueling canes alone. Why make your own?”

“A gauntlet is something I can always have on me. It’s also not an obvious weapon. I would have preferred a ring, but I couldn’t afford a gem with a reasonable mana capacity.”

Vellum crinkled her lips. “At least you were thinking. That’s better than I can say for the majority of my students.” She shook her head. “But I can’t let you keep making disasters like this.”

I looked down. “I’ll make sure to draw boundaries next time, professor.” “No, no, no. It’s more than that. This isn’t your first incident; don’t think Ididn’t hear about you overcharging that war cane. You’re experimenting. And experimenting is always going to have risks.”

“What do you want me to do, then?” My palms stung, and I looked down to see my fists clenched tightly, nails digging into my skin. “Stop enchantinguntil my second year — assuming I can survive that long?”

“Goddess, no, boy. Of course not.” She handed the gauntlet back, and I had to unclench one of my hands to take it from her. “Never stop enchanting. Never stop creating. Never stop thinking. That is your greatest asset, even if it can also be your greatest weakness. No, I don’t want you to stop.”

She stood up, her eyes sharp and gleaming. “No, I want you to listen.

Because I’m going to teach you some real enchantments.”

