CHAPTER XX — SERPENTS

I found myself inside a circular white room, four tremendous support pillars forming a square within the circle. The pillars reminded me of where I’d first encountered Katashi. That was my destination now. He said he’d find me there, although I didn’t know if he’d be waiting there (doubtful) or simply check in at some point to see if I’d arrived.

It would have been nice to have a way to just contact Katashi and tell him to come pick Vera up at the entrance, but based on his prior behavior, I expected that any deviation from the plan was likely to antagonize him.

I considered using the book to contact the Voice of the Tower again and now that I was inside, but the Voice had been clear that I wasn’t supposed to let Professor Orden know that the book existed. This was a bad enough situation that I was tempted to do it anyway, but I decided against doing it immediately.

I did have the Jaden Box, but I didn’t have anything strongly connected to him that I could use to try to summon him...and I already knew that summoning a visage was a terrible risk.

Could I stick my branded hand in the box and use that as a summoning focus if I needed to? Maybe, but I didn’t know if I had to close the box’s lid, and I didn’t feel like losing my hand unless I really needed to. That sounded rather uncomfortable.

The others appeared around me. Fortunately, whoever designed the teleportation function for the tower entrance was apparently smart enough to have figured out a way to make sure we didn’t appear right on top of each other.

I glanced around the chamber as the others oriented themselves.

The room was about thirty meters across. Next to us was a single large door that looked just like the one we’d entered through. An exit? Was walkingback out of here really going to be that easy? There hadn’t been an immediate exit during the Judgment, but that was meant to be a single trip.

If climbing the tower was more about learning how it worked and entering and exiting repeatedly over the course of years, it made sense for it to be somewhat easier to get back out.

There were two doors on the oppose side of the room, near what I was picturing as the northeast and northwest pillars. The “exit” door was right between the southern pillars.

I was already presuming too much. I turned toward Derek and jerked a thumb toward the door. “Is that an exit?”

He nodded. “Yep. It’s not like a Judgment. We can walk out any time, as long as we can make it safely back here.”

Professor Orden snapped her fingers, drawing all of our attention. “Listen up, children. I know that for many of you, this is your first experience climbing the tower. Now that we’re here, we need to discuss our strategy.”

I nodded. “That makes sense, but is there a time limit in this room?”

She shook her head. “This is what we generally call a ‘landing room’. There are several within the tower. Each tower entrance has one, and each time you reach a new level of the tower you will often find one. It’s a safe room; you can stay in landing rooms more or less indefinitely without consequences. If we were going up, we would most likely be using landing rooms to sleep every few levels.”

I breathed a sigh of relief at the revelation that there were safe rooms to stop and rest.

Orden continued. “The first thing to discuss is our objective. Corin, what exactly did Katashi ask you to do? Be specific.”

“I need to bring Vera to the room where the two of us met him during my Judgment. He insisted that she be alive, for what it’s worth.”

Vera didn’t seem to relax when she heard that. She just glanced at each of the members of our group, looking nervous. I didn’t blame her.

I scratched an itch on my nose. “Beyond that, he said I had a seven day time limit. I don’t know how deep that room is into the tower, so I’m not sure how difficult that will be. I presume we’re already on the second day.”

Vera chimed in. “The room we found him in was the first floor below ground, or B1 as we’d usually call it.”

I blinked. “The tower goes down? I mean, I knew it felt like I was going down when I went through that grate, but I guess I assumed...”

Derek chuckled. “It’s a common misconception that the tower only goes up. Climbers are trying to get to the top of the tower, after all. But this place goes deep below the surface of the continent, too. The creatures that maintainthe tower live down there. Workers and administrators and such. I’m a little surprised you managed to get down there during a Judgment; that’s unusual, but not unheard of.”

I turned back to Vera. “How’d you know what floor we were on? Is there an easy way to tell?”

Vera pointed a finger at the side of her head. “Analyst Attunement. Among other things, I can detect my current altitude. Not all floors are the same height, but we were just about twenty meters below the tower entrance when we were in that room, which was roughly the height of the staircase in the chamber. Thus, we were on B1.”

I nodded. “Okay. How hard is it to get down there?”

“With me? Not bad.” Derek grinned. “Stairs down are harder to find. They’re usually either concealed or protected somehow, but if we only need to go down one level, that should be very doable. Six days is plenty of time. We’ll probably be done in less than six hours.”

Professor Orden shook her head. “I appreciate your confidence, Derek, but we’re not all a bunch of Emeralds like yourself. We will need to proceed slowly and cautiously to ensure the children — and our esteemed guest — remain safe.”

Derek nodded. “’Course, we’ll take it slow. I’m just saying that this doesn’t sound particularly difficult, it’s just important. If we prioritize monster rooms, I should be able to handle the danger by myself for the most part.”

Sera turned to Derek. “Prioritize? Meaning that, much like with a Judgment, we’re going to have a choice of different rooms to proceed?”

“Yep. And one of the options is usually fighting. The tower gets more dangerous as you go further up, both in terms of traps and monsters. I could sleep through fighting most of the things on the first ten levels or so, with the exception of spire guardians. I’d have to be awake for those, but I could be blindfolded and armless.” He winked at Sera. “Not to brag or anything, of course.”

Sera rolled her eyes. “Right. Just like you handled the Survival Match all by yourself.”

Derek gave her a wounded look, putting his hand over his heart. “That was a rare exception, Miss Cadence. I wasn’t able to show my true strength in there. I was suppressing a considerable amount of my shroud to look like a Citrine.”

“Why do that?” Sera folded her arms.

Derek sighed. “We only have a few known Emeralds in all of Valia. Emeralds are tactical assets in warfare, so we try to keep a relatively lowprofile. No laws about it, just common sense.”

Orden nodded. “Each attunement level is about six times more powerful than the last. Even an E-ranked Emerald is six times more powerful than an E-ranked Citrine and so-on.”

Derek chuckled. “And I’m hardly just E-ranked. Anyway, I’d normally never say this, but enough about me. We should focus on the task at hand.”

Orden pointed at the north east door. “Shall we begin exploring, then? We can look at the two doors that are available and choose a path.”

“I’ll go check the walls for additional passages while you do that,” Vera offered. “And no, I’m not going to try to escape. I know you can teleport.”

Professor Orden nodded. “I appreciate your cooperation.”

Our group headed toward the northwest doorway. Unlike most of the doors in my Judgment, this was a simple wooden door with no visible lock. Standard doorknob. It looked like the type of door you could find just about anywhere.

Derek waved for us to back off a bit, so we all stepped back while he approached the door. “Don’t see a lot of traps on the first floor, but I should always be the one to open the doors just in case.”

I liked the idea of having Derek up front. It made it much harder for him to stab us in the back.

I watched carefully as Derek opened the door.

The next chamber looked pretty similar to the one we were standing in, with the exception of the fact that the floor was missing.

After a few seconds, a single floating tile appeared about a meter from the doorway. Another tile appeared a few seconds later, another meter or so out from the doorway.

Then the first tile disappeared, and a third tile appeared, continuing the path.

The appearing tiles were clearly making a path toward the solitary visible door on the other side of the room: a path that was, if I wasn’t mistaken, meant for us to jump across one tile at a time.

I didn’t like this at all.

Derek reached into a pouch at his side and retrieved the most mundane of tools — a rock. He tossed the rock onto one of the visible tiles. It hit and bounced right into the darkness beyond.

“Looks like they’re solid, at least.” He turned back to the group. “Orden, are the tiles actually discorporating or just turning invisible?”

“They’re discorporating. You’d need to jump across with exactly the right timing, otherwise you’d fall into...whatever that darkness is.”

I thought I heard something from the pit, but it was barely audible.

“Silly question,” Sera stepped closer to the doorway, looking down. Just seeing her that close made me uncomfortable. “But if this goes down, would it be a possible shortcut to the floor we’re looking for?”

“Not a bad thought, actually.” Derek peered down into the darkness.

Vera finished her circuit of the room and came to stand by the rest of us. “I heard the rock hit the ground after about five and a half seconds. That means the floor is about a hundred and forty eight meters down. Unlikely we’d survive that fall, and it’s also several floors down.”

Those were some pretty impressive senses.

Sera set down her backpack. “I’ve got rope. Could we lower someone down and break through a wall at the correct altitude?”

Derek scratched his chin. “Maybe if there’s a hollow wall that’s designed for it — and there are a bunch of those in the tower. Have to be careful, though. If you try to break through one of the normal walls, the tower usually sends something to stop you. Even I wouldn’t want to take the risk of fighting one of those guardians if I can avoid it.”

Vera knelt down and pressed a hand against the stone just below the doorway. “I don’t detect any weaknesses in the wall right near us. There are two of them in the chamber we’re currently standing in, though. They’re located directly opposite the two visible doors.”

She gestured to the south side of the chamber. “They’re thinner than the standard wall segments, but I also detected mechanisms on the other sides — meaning I don’t think they’re meant to be smashed open. I think they’re shortcuts back into this room from other parts of the tower.”

Derek nodded. “That’s pretty common. Lots of ways back to the entrance. We could try to bust through one to find a shortcut, but it’s not worth the risk of antagonizing a spire guardian.”

I gestured at the open door. “Do we have any way of knowing if this even leads to a way down?”

Vera stepped away from the doorway and turned to me. “Nope. But most tower paths tend to lead in a big circle, unless they end at a teleporter or a treasure room. If we keep exploring, we’ll hit a way down eventually.”

Derek nodded in agreement and closed the door. “We could probably handle this pretty easily, but the first door usually gives you an idea of the character of a specific route. I’d rather avoid puzzles if we can.”

If I was going it solo, I’d have probably disagreed, although timing-based puzzles weren’t my greatest strength. With this group, though, fighting our way through did seem a lot safer than counting on everyone properly timing their jumps.

We headed over to the other door and Derek opened it without incident.

The next room was a long rectangular one with a single door directly opposite us.

In between us and the door, however, were three titanic green slimes.

Slimes were among the most basic monsters in any of the spires. They weren’t smart or particularly dangerous. They were essentially gelatinous mana with a hint of animal cunning. The most common theory I’d heard was that they were essentially the byproducts of failed spells and magical experiments.

The more solid ones could slam into you to break bones, but most of them just tried to envelop and suffocate people. This wasn’t generally a big threat, since they weren’t very fast or strong, either.

These slimes, though? They were a good ten feet tall, and I was pretty sure the stone beneath them was sizzling. Acidic, then.

Derek turned toward Sera. “You want to handle these?”

Sera blinked. “I mean, we could, but wouldn’t it be easier for you to do it?And did we already decide on this room?”

Derek waved a hand into the chamber. “Definitely. We’re lucky to have found something this easy, trust me. I haven’t had the luxury of fighting slimes in years. I’ve seen you fight once before, but I’d like to get a better idea of your whole group’s fighting abilities. It will help give me a better idea of who I need to focus on protecting.”

Orden leaned up against a wall near the door. “I agree with Derek’s sugestion. While I’m confident that Derek could handle most of the monsters here without any difficulty, I’d like to see what the rest of you are capable of. And I’d rather that Derek save his strength in case Katashi isn’t feeling diplomatic.”

We had a moment of silence as everyone processed the gravity of that particular statement. Orden and Derek shared a nod of acknowledgement.

They’re planning for the possibility of fighting him, I realized.

I’d been so worried about Derek that I hadn’t really considered what might happen if Katashi wasn’t sufficiently satisfied when we delivered Vera to him. What if Vera told him something he didn’t want to hear?I didn’t want to think about it.

I’d seen Keras fight Katashi for a few moments, so it was possible for a human to survive a conflict with a visage briefly. I still didn’t know what that entailed, however. I’d heard that Keras had escaped, but that didn’t mean he’d gotten out intact.

I didn’t know how Derek stacked up against Keras in combat ability, but I doubted he was much more powerful. I didn’t know how powerful Orden was, either. I hadn’t missed the fact that she’d been deliberately evasive abouthow powerful she was with her Wayfarer Attunement, but even if she was another Emerald, I didn’t think they stood any significant chance in a direct confrontation.

Maybe they could survive long enough to teleport us out, though?I dismissed the errant thoughts. I didn’t have enough information to speculate with any level of accuracy. I had a few contingency plans of my own if I needed to use them.

I turned to Derek. “Can we just hit the slimes with attacks from out here?”

He shook his head. “Most spells won’t pass through the doorway. That’d make it too easy, I suppose. Gotta get in there and put yourself at risk, otherwise there’s no challenge. And Selys loves challenges.”

I groaned. “What about if we blasted a small hole through a wall right next to the door? Would our attacks be able to pass through the gap we made?”

Derek laughed, glancing toward Professor Orden. “Does he always try to solve problems by making bigger ones?”

Orden nodded sagely. “That would sum up Corin’s problem solving methodology quite appropriately.”

Sera nudged me. “Don’t let them bother you. C’mon, this’ll be fun.” I sighed. “Fine. We’ll go get to the fighting.”

Derek stepped out of the doorway, bowed at the waist, and gestured toward the open door. “After you, then.”

I grit my teeth. I didn’t like letting Derek get physically behind me, but I was also letting him get under my skin, and in some ways that was worse.

I needed to focus. I drew steel.

Sera, interestingly enough, did the same.

I hadn’t seen her wield a sword in years. We’d played with wooden blades as children, but we’d graduated to dueling canes as soon as we were old enough to use them.

Well, younger than we should have, if the scarring developing inside my hand was any indication.

Either way, the elegance of a full-sized sword was quickly overshadowed by the vastly superior fun of being able to blast each other with magic. At least for the two of us. Tristan had kept up standard sword training all the way up to going into the tower. He’d always had a stronger affinity for physical combat than I did.

Apparently, Sera did, too; she settled into a fighting stance that I’d seen both my mother and Tristan demonstrate, but I’d never learned. It was a highstance, with the sword raised above the head and the blade pointed toward the enemy. It looked impractical.

I was using a stance built for dueling canes, knees bent with the tip of the blade pointed directly toward the closest slime’s center of mass.

This was, of course, even less practical. Unlike a dueling cane, this sword didn’t have a rune to send a blast of energy out of the tip.

In short, we probably shouldn’t have been using weapons.

Jin stepped up to my left side. He hadn’t drawn any weapon at all.

I turned and gave him an expectant glance as the slimes slowly lumbered toward us.

He shrugged. “Don’t have a sword.”

Two pistols were clearly visible on his belt. I didn’t bother to point that out.

Okay, Jin. Have it your way.

I wasn’t going to wait until those things got close enough to swing at.

Stepping forward, I brought my sword up and back down in a diagonal slash and pushed the blade’s mana forward. The shockwave closed the distance in a second, cutting a deep gouge into the closest slime’s gelatinous body.

That didn’t slow it down, though.

Sera hit it next. Not with the sword, but with a rain of icy knives that manifested at her whispered word. That slime collapsed, falling still, but didn’t vanish.

The next closest slime crashed into it — and stretched out over it. I blinked. “Is it...eating the other slime?”

I got my answer a moment later when top slime melted into the bottom one, causing it to swell in size. Then it started moving again, and considerably faster.

“That’s bad,” Sera mumbled. “Okay, Plan B. Hit it harder.”

I nodded, pointing with my demi-gauntlet and rapidly sending several surges of mana into it. I blasted the slime with a half-dozen globes of energy, tearing off bits of goo with each burst. I’d damaged it, but nowhere near enough.

Sword reach. I swung, but a pair of gelatinous spikes shot out of the creature’s side and deflected my blade. I barely had time to widen my eyes and side-step as more spikes shot out, piercing the air where I’d been standing a moment before.

Sera jabbed Selys-Lyann into the creature’s side, leaving an icy wound.

The slime shivered, tiny drops of slime raining everywhere, before firing a sustained barrage of gelatinous spines in Sera’s direction.

She didn’t move. Instead, she said, “Wall,” and any icy barrier sprung up in front of her, blocking the spines.

I took advantage of the distraction to run away.

Or, more accurately, to run toward the single isolated slime that was still half a room away from us. The two merged slimes were clearly much stronger, and I didn’t need this thing getting any more powerful from merging with a third slime.

I assaulted it with a series of quick cuts, the transference aura around my blade parting slime easily with each motion.

It didn’t take long for my barrage of slashes to wear the creature down. There was no obvious core — no vital organs — but once I’d slashed away enough of the creature’s mass, it collapsed like the previous one had. It looked almost like it was deflating. I hit it a few more times before it finally vanished, leaving a single green gem behind.

I ducked to grab the gemstone with my free hand and headed back toward Sera.

The merged slime had smashed through Sera’s wall, and she’d maneuvered around it to strike it with several more cuts. Three spears pierced through it into the stone floor, but they failed to pin it down. It simply tore through its own mass to surge toward her.

Sera stepped backward, slicing off a pair of encroaching spines, but it was closing the distance too fast. It would be on top of her in moments.

I poured mana into my gauntlet, sending a surge of transference mana. I’d hoped to knock the creature back, but it didn’t have the intended function.

Instead, it blasted a huge hole right through the slime’s center of mass.

The creature froze in place for an instant, giving Sera much-needed time to reorient and retreat.

Then the slime surged toward me absurdly fast, leaving an acidic trail in its wake.

I didn’t have time to dodge to the side, and I knew another slash wouldn’t be sufficient to stop it.

And so, with all the athleticism of a student who spends most of his time reading and enchanting, I tried to jump through the hole in the creature’s center.

To my credit, I almost made it.

My feet caught on the bottom of the hole, flipping me forward onto the stone floor. I hit the ground hard, the jolt of pain forcing me to drop my sword. My feet were stuck inside the slime; immobile, but fortunately not yet burning.

My shield sigil had activated, and it was repelling the acidic goop, but theslime was looming over me and about ready to crash down and crush me to a pulp.

A blur of movement. First from a humanoid figure in front of me, then the slime behind me.

I felt a tug on my feet as the slime wrenched backward, and then I was free.

I rolled over to find the slime flying backward, as if shoved by a giant hand, and then exploding when it hit the rear wall of the chamber.

Two more green gems fell to the floor as remaining slime goop vanished. And, weirdly, a pickaxe also appeared amongst the slime’s remains.

Derek was standing over me, grinning broadly. He reached down to offer me a hand, which I grudgingly accepted.

“Not a bad jump there. It was a good reflex, even if it didn’t quite work.

You kids did good for your first fight in here.” I winced. “Thanks, I guess.”

He sounded genuine enough, but I couldn’t help but assume he was probably being snide about the whole thing. Maybe I was just too biased in my assumptions about his motives, though.

I reached down and picked up my sword, sheathing it and pointing at the pickaxe. “That’s a little weird.”

“Oh, that?” Derek walked over and picked up the pickaxe. “It’s for breaking stone.”

I sighed. “I know what a pickaxe is. I just was surprised to see one falling out of a slime?”

He laughed. “The tower provides. If there’s a need for a specific tool to solve a certain puzzle, or if there’s a secret passage nearby that a tool could help us find, you’ll find that tool somewhere. In this case, we’ll probably find a hollow wall—”

“Here.” Vera tapped a wall on the eastern side of the room. “Thinner than the ones in the other room and no mechanism on the other side.”

Derek turned to Vera. “Nice! I’d usually have to tap on every wall to hear what sounds hollow. Believe me, that’s a pain. You’re going to be very useful.”

He walked over to the wall, ignoring the green gems — and, by my logic, tacitly giving me permission to take them immediately.

I picked up the gems, and then handed them to Sera. “You did the heavy lifting on the big one. You should probably take these.”

She waved a hand. “Nah, aren’t those mana crystals? I can’t use them like you can.”

I shrugged. “They’re worth money, though.”

“I’m sure I’ll find something else in here I can actually use. You should hold onto those for an emergency.”

I nodded at the logic, tucking them away with the other one. Then, after thinking for a second, I pulled one back out. “Vera, can you check what these do?”

She accepted the gemstone. “Life mana crystal, class 3.”

I whistled appreciatively. I’d never owned a crystal of that level of quality before. I took out the other two. “They the same?”

“Yep.”

Nice.

Derek slammed the pickaxe into the wall Vera had indicated. A chunk of stone fell away, leaving a sizable enough gap to see that there was a passageway on the other side. “I’ll clear this. Check the other door real quick, though. Secret passages are usually better, but it might lead to something we don’t want, like the stairs up.”

Professor Orden led the way to the other door, opening it.

I caught the briefest glimpse of purplish scales before Orden slammed the door back shut, immediately tracing a series of runes over the wood with her finger. As she moved her hand, a line of mana burned the runes into the door. When she had finished, a glowing barrier manifested over the wood.

“Was that...?” Sera asked.

Orden stepped away from the door. “Mizuchi. I’ve never heard of her being this close to the tower entrance. That is not a good sign.”

I scratched my chin. “Any chance she’s there to guard the stairs down, and has orders to let us through? Maybe Katashi is doing us a favor?”

“Extremely unlikely,” Derek called in between swings of the pickaxe. “It’s more likely she’s a sign that we’re not supposed to go that direction. Even I wouldn’t take the risk of tangling with someone like her by myself. I don’t think she’s ever even been injured.”

Given what I’d seen from her fight with the Soaring Wings, I’d call that likely.

“We can explore that route if all others are exhausted,” Orden decided. “In the meantime, let’s wait and see where Derek’s passage leads.”

It didn’t take Derek much longer to clear the way. Even without his obviously enhanced strength, the stone in that section didn’t seem particularly solid. I picked up a small rock and put it in my pouch. It felt far lighter than it looked, and I wanted to figure out what it was made of at some point. I thought about asking Vera, but it didn’t seem sufficiently relevant to the situation.

Derek led the way down the thin hallway that he’d cleared the way into.

After stepping a few feet in, he held up a hand to stop us from advancing further. “I’m going to open up the next door. Step back out of the hallway in case anything happens.”

“Lemme check for traps first,” Vera offered. Most of us backed out of the hallway, but Vera stepped in deeper, shouldering her way past Derek. I couldn’t see her, but I heard her say, “Door is unlocked. I don’t detect any traps, but I wouldn’t be able to tell if it’s triggered by something too far away, like on the other side of the room.”

“Should be good enough. I can take a hit or two, anyway — but thanks. You really are very helpful.” Vera slipped out of the hallway with the rest of us, then Derek opened the door.

No traps. Or at least nothing that made Derek explode outright.

Derek stepped into the room. I saw him take a deep breath, mumble something, and then wave for us to follow.

The room was filled with keys.

Thousands of keys. We had to step onto a pile of keys just to get inside. It felt something like a legendary dragon’s hoard, only the dragon was either very misguided or extremely eccentric.

Or maybe it just wanted to start a new, key-centric economy. Who knew? I knelt down once I’d gotten in there, examining the sheer variety of keys.

No two keys looked exactly alike. Some had handle styles that resembled animals, some were painted unnatural colors. Most, but not all of them, looked like they were built for modern pin tumbler locks. A few of them didn’t have the necessary cuts toward the tip, though.

One of them was just a flat rectangular piece of wood. It took me a minute to realize it was a piano key.

Apparently, the goddess had a sense of humor.

The room itself was square shaped, and our entry door was on the center of one of the faces. The left and right faces also had doors. Each of which had an abundantly obvious series of three locks on the surface.

Vera walked to the conspicuously empty wall face directly across from us and put a hand against the stone. “Not hollow. Seems like a real wall. I’ll see if I can figure out anything about the locks. I don’t detect any other traps, so you can probably look around somewhat safely.”

Jin and Professor Orden headed to the left door, so I followed Sera toward the right one. The three locks on the surface were blue, yellow, and red. It reminded me of my Judgment.

Vera walked up next to me, and then touched the face of one of the locks. “Hrm. Built for a specific key; it’ll trigger a trap in the ceiling of the room if we use the wrong one.”

She repeated the process with the other two locks. I was curious what it was like using her attunement. Did information just appear in her head, like she’d always known it, or was there a visual component? It didn’t seem like the right time to ask, though.

“These require other keys. Seems pretty straightforward, but I’ll check the other door as well.”

I frowned. “So, we’re just supposed to dig through a pile of keys until we find the matching ones? That seems...uninteresting, compared to some of the other challenges.”

Vera shrugged. “Not every challenge you face in life is going to be about combat skills or lightning fast reflexes. This one is probably a test of patience, or maybe problem solving. There’s probably a way to speed this up. There usually is. Maybe several.”

Sera picked up a key from the pile and offered it to Vera. “If we hand you a key, will you be able to tell if it’s the right one before we try it in a lock?”

Vera accepted the key. “Probably. Interesting. This key isn’t enchanted. The lock was definitely looking for an enchantment. That’s how it checks if the key is right.”

I considered that. “That narrows things a lot, actually. I could probably find the enchanted keys pretty fast. Or, at least, the ones that aren’t buried.”

I tapped my mana watch to my forehead and checked the value. 48/48. I’d used a little bit of the mana from my hand during the fight, but none of my mental mana. It would be safe to turn my attunement on for just a bit.

I looked back to Vera. “I’m going to activate my attunement and start picking up keys. I’ll hand them to you when I find them.”

“Sounds like a good plan.” Vera nodded and started walking to the other side of the room.

I turned my attunement on. It was momentarily blinding; there was magic everywhere in the tower. Literally everywhere; even the air itself was infused with a little bit of mana.

I wasn’t just seeing the mana. The mana was so thick around me that I could feel it. It was like a haze of mist all around me, solid enough that I could imagine touching it.

Could I?Experimentally, I reached out with my right hand and focused my mind. I tried to reach into the ambient mana and pull on it like I could with a mana crystal. A tiny patch of mana reacted, swirling around my fingers. The mana pulled away from my hand a moment later, indicating that something was working against my efforts.

Interesting. I’ll have to experiment with this more later.

The brightest source of mana in the room was Derek; he had his Emerald shroud active. It made sense. We all knew he was an Emerald, so he had no reason to hide it and risk suffering an injury with a weaker shroud.

After that, the strongest auras were from Derek’s weapons and Orden’s tunic. The ring of regeneration was next, glowing with a golden Citrine aura.

Interestingly enough, Selys-Lyann didn’t have a colored glow at all. The aura around it was translucent, much like a quartz attuned. I doubted it was only Quartz-Level, however, which implied that one of the runes on the weapon was designed to conceal the sword’s aura.

Once I’d gotten used to the glow, I started picking through the keys until I found glowing ones. I found a good dozen of them among the hundreds on the surface of the pile. Apparently this wouldn’t be as simple as just finding the six magic keys among all of them.

Still, this was vastly more efficient than having Vera check all of the keys. After she’d finished checking the locks on other side of the room and confirmed that they worked the same way, I started picking up the magickeys. Professor Orden beat me to some of them.

I was a little surprised she decided to help, but I wasn’t going to complain.

Between the two of us, we picked up the visible keys and handed them off to Vera within a couple minutes. After that, we began the exhausting process of digging through the vast piles of other keys for more enchanted ones.

At one point, I found a wooden slat that had the word “key” written on it. Yeah, Selys definitely had a sense of humor. Not a very sophisticated one,but it was there.

I shook my head and kept digging.

“Found a couple good ones in this first batch. One key for each door.

Want me to go ahead and put them in the right locks?”

“Go ahead,” Professor Orden replied. Which was good, because I was about to say it myself, and it would have been embarrassing to say something when I definitely wasn’t in charge.

Vera turned a key in one of the doors. I heard a click.

“Huh. I think that unlocked it. Maybe we don’t need all three for each door?” Vera put a hand on the doorknob, frowning. “It’s definitely unlocked.”

Derek walked over to the door. “Don’t open that yet. It’ll probably work now, but it’ll probably work better if we open all the locks first.”

Jin picked up a key, tossed it into the air, and caught it. “I’m pretty sure opening is all we need the door to do.”

Derek shook his head. “Yeah, it’s meant to tempt us to leave early. If we solve the whole thing, though, it’ll probably give us something extra. Like an additional tool, or it’ll change where the door leads.”

I’d almost forgotten that the doorways were more like teleporters. The connections between rooms in the tower were constantly shifting. I’d never actually seen it happen, but someone like Derek who had been in here dozens of times almost certainly had.

“It could just be that there are three keyholes to give us three options on which key to find, making the room easier to solve,” Jin pointed out.

He wasn’t wrong; that was a pretty reasonable assumption. Not every group would have an Enchanter handy, and certainly not a combination of an Enchanter and an Analyst. We had a pretty ideal group for this, although a powerful Diviner might have found it even easier.

“Let’s just see how long it takes to find another couple keys and go from there,” Derek suggested. “We’ve got days before we need to introduce Vera to Katashi. I’d like to do whatever we can to make this as safe as possible.”

Introduce? Really?That was a very... optimistic way of thinking about what we were doing.

Vera straightened up a bit at the reference, her expression tilting definitively toward the dour in spite of Derek’s friendly language. She was still handling it a lot better than I would have in her place, though.

I tried not to think about the possibility that I was leading her to die.

It only took us a few more minutes to find the next matching key. That gave us a bit of encouragement. It seemed like it’d be a pretty easy task.

It took two hours to find the entire rest of the set. I’d shut off my attunement long before, so we had to rely strictly on Professor Orden’s vision to identify the magical keys. Fortunately, we eventually figured out a system— emptying out one corner, then dedicating gradually moving every single “disqualified” key to that corner — until we had all of the right ones.

We inserted all the keys into the left door first. Clicks for each, but no obvious change in the door itself. Vera was able to detect that the destination on the opposite side of the door hadn’t changed.

Exasperated, we inserted the three keys into the door on the opposite side of the room. A huge blue treasure box appeared in the middle of the chamber.

“Hrm.” Jin mumbled.

“Yeah, you mumble, you know I won the bet.” Derek nudged Jin as he walked toward the center. “Ah, Vera, you want to check this for traps?”

Vera wandered over, putting a hand on the box. Her eyes shut. “...you’re not going to like this.”

Derek’s hand went to the hilt of one of his swords. “What’s wrong?” “It’s not trapped. But...it is locked.”

She tipped over the box.

There were eight keyholes on the bottom side.

And we’d long ago consigned the magic keys we didn’t need into the same titanic pile as all of the non-magical ones.

That had, in retrospect, been a pretty serious oversight.

And, more importantly, I learned that Selys had a much meaner sense of humor than I’d imagined.

***It was another two hours before we found all of the right keys to open the box. By that point, everyone aside from Derek had lost most of their enthusiasm. I was half-expecting to find another box inside the box.

At least we’d set aside all the remaining magical keys this time, just in case.

Finally, with every key in place, we popped the box open. There was a key inside.

A single. Reshing. Key.

It was made out of blue crystal, serpentine in shape, with decorative spines forming the bittings on the blade of the key.

“Ooh.” Derek snatched the key out of the box. “Vera, any idea what this does?”

“I’m going to hazard a guess that it opens a lock, Derek.” She sighed. “Beyond that, you’re not going to get much out of me. I can tell you if it’s magic, the dimensions, and what it’s made out of — but not what it goes to. The serpent motif is probably significant, of course.”

“Check anyway.” He handed her the key.

“Definitely magic. Strong, too, but I can’t tell you what it does. Maybe one of the Enchanters could?”

Professor Orden silently held out a hand and Vera gave her the key.

Orden looked the key over while I checked my remaining mental mana. 37/48. I hadn’t used a dangerous amount, but I was already getting a pretty serious headache.

“No obvious runes. Like many tower items, it’s not enchanted through the same means as the Enchanter Attunement uses. It’s probably closer to Derek’s swords. Mana has been stored in it directly. That does mean that it was probably made by a visage, making it significant. If there are no objections, I’ll hold onto this until we find a use for it.”

Derek’s expression saddened, but no one objected. I was just happy we’d gotten anything out of all the effort.

We checked the northern door first.

The room beyond the door was rectangular, but the floor and walls were divided into black and white squares. It wasn’t set up like a Crowns board, though. Sometimes there would be a few white or black squares directlyadjacent to each other.

After a few seconds, I heard a creaking sound, then a hail of spikes shot upward from the black squares on the floor. We hadn’t done anything to trigger it. Must have been timed.

Derek shut the door. “Okay, trap room. Looks complicated. Let’s check the other one.”

We made our way toward the other door, once again with Derek leading the way.

The other room was another classic; a long rectangular room with a water pit in the center. There was a single door on the opposite side. It had a single blue keyhole.

There was a broken bridge crossing about half the pool — and no obvious switch on the other side — but otherwise it was pretty close to the water room that I’d found in my Judgment.

The same room that had led me to the jail cells and gotten this whole mess started.

Suddenly, that spike look was looking awfully appealing by comparison. Derek made the decision for us and stepped inside. “This one looks easy.” The tile beneath his feet depressed just slightly into the ground.

I only heard a hiss before Derek’s hand blurred upward, catching the first spear of ice that emerged from the other side of the room.

“...okay, maybe not that easy,” he mumbled, hurling the icy spear to the ground and stepping fully inside.

That tile sunk into the ground, too. “Oops?” he mumbled.

A hail of dozens of ice spears fired out of holes in the wall on the opposite side of the room, all aimed for Derek.

His arm blurred again, and then he had a flaming blade in hand, shattering each of the icy spears in a flicker of motions that were too quick for my eyes to follow.

I had to admit, it was pretty impressive.

Lowering his weapon after smashing the barrage, Derek sighed. “Okay. I need to stop moving for a minute.”

“Figured that one out all by yourself, did you?” Vera laughed, gingerly pressing a finger against the top of the first tile that Derek had stepped on. It was slowly moving back upward to the level of the rest of the floor. “Okay. Good news is that the tiles don’t seem to be linked to each other, so you haven’t triggered a chain reaction with those first couple missteps. Bad news is that each tile can trigger more than once, and I don’t see an easy way to differentiate them from normal tiles. If there are any normal tiles.”

Vera knelt down at the doorway, sweeping her hand around the area connecting to the first tile. “Hold on, let me check around here a little more.”

Derek frowned, looking down. “That’s fine... I’ll just, uh, stand here. And protect you. Yes. That is definitely what I will be doing.”

“How very gallant of you.” Vera continued tracing her way around the tile until she’d made a full circuit with her hand. “Okay, there are some spots that aren’t going to trigger any traps. I can figure them out by touch, but you’re all going to have to follow me carefully. And we should have a plan for crossing that bridge before we get this started.”

“I can handle that part,” Sera offered. “I can make an ice bridge.”

I glanced at her. “Any chance you could make an ice floor over the whole floor that’s solid enough for us to step on without touching the tiles?”

She pursed her lips, seeming to consider the idea. “I could, but it’d take up...maybe two thirds of my mana?”

“That’s too much, never mind. We’ll deal with it.”

Vera nodded. “Okay, I’ll lead the way, then. Derek will be next. He can ‘protect me’ if anything goes wrong. Sera can come up after that, then the rest of you.”

We made our way to the middle of the room slowly, but without incident. Sera pointed her hand at the broken gap in the bridge.

“Child of the goddess, I call upon our pact. Form a bridge of ice!”

A thick section of ice formed over the gap. It looked slick, but when Vera tested it with a foot she judged that it was stable enough to cross.

We followed her to the other side of the bridge. It was Jin that noticed that we’d missed something.

“There’s a key at the bottom of the water.”

He pointed to the bottom left corner of the pool. I wasn’t even sure I could see it at first, but I checked my mana watch — it’s still 37/48, Corin, you haven’t used any since the last time you checked — and turned my attunement on.

Yeah, definitely a key down there.

Sera frowned down at the water. “Want me to try to lift it out with air magic?”

Derek narrowed his eyes at the key. “Might not be a bad idea, assuming you can maintain the bridge at the same time. Also, don’t splash us. That’s probably acid.”

Sera nodded. “That’ll make it... trickier. But I think I can manage it.”

She pointed her hand toward the spot in the water and began to whisper into the air.

“Wyvern, I call upon our pact. Deliver this key unto me.”

The effect was surprisingly subdued. The key floated upward unceremoniously to the top of the water, then out of it toward Sera’s waiting hand.

I’d been expecting a tornado or a hurricane or something. I was a little disappointed, but I could live with it.

Sera waved her hand at the last moment and the key dropped onto the stone at her feet. As Derek had suspected, the droplets of liquid that had collected on the key burned into the bridge’s surface.

“If you’ll all move to the side a bit, I’ll use the wind to push the key straight into the lock,” Sera offered.

Vera shook her head. “Let me check the lock first. The key might not actually correspond to it.”

“Seriously?” Sera glanced down at the key. “I mean, I can respect being tricky, but that’d be a little ridiculous.”

“It’s more likely the key could actually be used in multiple places. That’s more the goddess’ style, in my experience,” Derek suggested. “Vera, you want to check the walls for more secret passages?”

“Uh, not particularly. Going to be kind of a pain to get over to each of the walls...but I suppose that was a rhetorical question and I should do it anyway. Fine. The rest of you wait on the bridge. It’s all safe, as far as I can tell.”

We waited on the bridge while Vera made a careful circuit around the room, feeling her way across the floor to find the safe spots before she stepped forward. After a couple minutes, she stood up to rub her back. All that bending forward and half-crawling must have been pretty awkward.

Eventually, she reached the walls and made her way around the room to check each of them. It was when she hit the south west corner that she paused. “Huh. Light me up, that’s a surprise. There is a false wall here. You still got that pickaxe?”

...we’d left the pickaxe in the key room.

After about a minute of deliberation, we decided that simply having Derek punch his way through the false wall would be faster and more efficient than trying to make our way all the way back to the key room.

Vera led Derek over to the wall.

He started punching right through it with his bare hands.

I really hoped he wasn’t the traitor I thought he was, because if he was, we were going to be in a lot of trouble.

Punching out sections of wall didn’t take him much longer than the pickaxe had, but it took us all another couple minutes to make our way over to the hole he’d excavated. It led into another tunnel, just like the first secret passage had. There was a door with a blue keyhole at the end.

“Gotta make a choice here,” Derek explained. “Keys in the tower almost always disappear when they’re used, so we can only open one of these two doors. Assuming it’s the same key for both.”

Vera tapped on the keyhole. “It is. I checked the other lock. They use the same key.”

“We’ll take the secret passage, Derek,” Professor Orden instructed.

“Yes, Professor.” He nodded to her. “Okay, Sera, can you float the key over here?”

“No problem.” Another quick air spell and she floated the key into the lock and turned it.

Derek opened the door.

The blast of air coming from the other room slammed him backward into Vera. It hit the rest of us in the next moment, and the sheer force of the gust carried me off the ground before I could react.

I flew backward out of the tunnel, uncontrolled until Jin grabbed me by the wrist. Somehow, he’d reacted fast enough to slam a dagger — a dagger I’d never seen — into the stone wall on the side of the tunnel to anchor himself into place.

Professor Orden crashed into me a second later, breaking Jin’s grip - then Orden and I were out of the tunnel and back in the previous room, airborne over a pool of acid and quickly approaching the opposite wall.

As I flew through the air toward imminent death, my mind somehow managed to inform me, “There’s the hurricane you wanted, Corin.”

Oh, the sharpness of my wit. Truly it cuts me more deeply than any other. “Wyvern, I call upon our pact! Protect us from the wind!”

Sera’s spell blocked the wind.

This was probably good for those people who were in the tunnel. Unfortunately, Orden and I were still entangled and airborne.

There was an almost comical instant when the last of the air faded and we began to fall.

I panicked. Orden acted.

She ripped the dueling cane off my belt, shot a blast of energy at a nearby tile and triggered the trap.

The acid was only a moment away, but the spears of ice from the trap reached us first.

Orden grabbed the closest spear and slammed it into the stone as we fell, intending to use it as an anchor like Jin had with the knife.

The ice spear bounced right off the stone. Magic or not, it couldn’t pierce rock.

Orden and I hit the acid hard.

For a moment, I was pretty confident I was going to die right there. My barrier kicked in before the acid could burn me, but with the barrier preventing the liquid from completely reaching me, I sank like a rock.

Orden was still there with me, her own barrier protecting her. I didn’t realize how important that was until she spoke a single word. “Teleport.”

And then we were standing back at the entrance to the tunnel, very much alive.

I breathed a sigh of relief, but it was only momentary.

Sera was kneeling on the ground at the entrance to the tunnel, breathing far too heavily. “Can’t...hold... the wind...much...longer...”

Resh.

Professor Orden and I stepped past her into the tunnel.

I could see the point where Sera’s spell — a twisting mist of green — was blocking off the wind at the end of the tunnel.

Derek had moved beyond that point. His Emerald aura was flaring, and he was physically pushing his way through the gale. The rest of us didn’t have any hope of mimicking that feat, though, and it didn’t look like Sera was going to be able to hold the wind long enough for the rest of us to wait here safely.

The easy approach was probably to move us all out of the tunnel and way off to the side, but that meant that Derek would have to try to tangle with that room alone. He probably could survive it without difficulty, but we had no way of knowing if he’d find a way to stop the wind — which meant that it was a dead end if we didn’t all get through.

“Can you teleport us to the other side of that room?” I asked Orden.

Orden shook her head. “I need an anchor to teleport. In this case, I was able to teleport back to Jin’s location. I could get us to Derek, but we’d just be blown right back out of the room.”

“Derek, close the door!” Vera shouted.

“What?” He shouted back. “Did you say my name? I can’t hear you over the wind!”

Orden stepped closer to Sera’s wind barrier, while Sera continued to shiver. With my attunement active, I could see threads of green leaking out of her. It was rather disconcerting.

Professor Orden frowned at the barrier. “We shouldn’t close the door. Derek could get stuck in there. We don’t know that this door will reopen if we try.” She turned back around. “Sera, can you make an ice wall at the entrance to this tunnel?”

She shook her head. She was looking flushed, her breathing accompaniedby a wheeze.

I needed to do something.

Can I use Selys-Lyann to make enough ice to form a wall? No, not enough time.

Blast through the wind with my gauntlet? No, the wind is continuous, it wouldn’t last.

I gestured toward the tunnel entrance. “Everyone, we need to get out of the hallway and let Sera rest.”

We moved out of the tunnel and off to the side of the door, where the wind wouldn’t hit us when it picked back up. When we were all out of the way aside from Sera, I grabbed onto her tight and pulled her toward me.

I nearly lost her, but Jin grabbed me around the waist and anchored me.

Together, we pulled her out of the doorway.

The wind whipped past us at deadly speed, but we were safe.

Sera was still breathing hard. I slipped off my backpack, withdrawing my water and handing it to her. She drank a sip, coughed that water up and retched onto the floor near us, and then drank some more. She managed to keep it down the second time.

She hugged me tightly and I hugged her right back. Even my usual reticence toward human contract was apparently overwhelmed by just how reshing close we’d just come to meeting our end.

We all sat down. I handed Sera the mana watch. She wordlessly accepted it, fumbling with the watch to find the right spot on her back to measure her mana.

-30/112.

She’d gone well beyond her safe mana limit. That meant potential permanent damage. No wonder she wasn’t talking.

She looked at the number, grimaced just slightly, and handed the watch back to me. I mussed her hair. “Quick thinking, blocking the wind. You saved us there. The rest of us will take care of things for a bit.”

Sera nodded, still looking painfully weak. If I was a Mender, maybe I could have healed her, but...

I sighed at my own stupidity. “I’ve still got the ring of regeneration,” I realized out loud. I handed her the ring. “Put that on, it’ll make you feel a bit better.”

She accepted the ring gratefully and slipped it on. She closed her eyes, letting out a sigh of momentary relief.

I felt a little better knowing the ring would probably keep her from getting worse, at least.

I glanced at the others. “Okay. Plan?”

Professor Orden shook her head. “As a Wayfarer, I have all sorts of movement-oriented spell. Unfortunately, none of them really involve blocking or resisting the wind. I could levitate someone, but that would just make them more susceptible to being blown away.”

I refrained from asking why she hadn’t levitated us across this room in the first place. Presumably she wanted to save her mana, or maybe it required her to concentrate on one person at a time.

Maybe she just enjoyed having other people do all the work. It didn’t matter. I needed to focus.

I still had a handful of magical items I hadn’t used, but none of them seemed applicable to the situation. I was sorely tempted to consult the book, but everyone could see me. Was it worth outing the book’s existence here?Maybe. It really was a tremendously dangerous situation. Extreme measures were warranted. But it wasn’t an extreme approach that I suspected to actually help.

The book would probably just write back something like, “Corin, you’re in the Room of Killing Wind. It has winds that kill you. Avoid them.”

I rolled my eyes at the thought. For a magic book, it wasn’t actually very helpful.

Aside from that, I didn’t really have any items that felt close to appropriate. Maybe Professor Orden did? That gave me a bit of an idea, at least. “Do you want to try that serpent key on the other door? Maybe we can just take the other route and get Derek back here.”

Professor Orden furrowed her brow, seeming to consider the suggestion. “Only if we can think of no alternative. The other room could be equally or more dangerous, and it could also introduce a new element that makes this room more deadly.”

A fair argument. “Okay. Do we have any way of communicating with Derek?”

Orden nodded. “I have a spell that sends messages, but it’s one way. He would not be able to reply.”

Sera tried to say something, but it just came out as a cough. She frowned, and then mimed drawing something and looked at me expectantly.

I set my backpack down, once again debating if I was willing to take out the book. Instead, I retrieved a pen and frowned. “Anyone have paper? Sera needs to write something.”

Vera dug some out of a bag. “Here you go, dear. Thanks again for the save back there.”

Sera nodded to Vera, accepting the paper and my pen. She wrote out, “Vanniv could probably stop the wind.”

I frowned. “You’re not in any condition to summon Vanniv right now.”

She nodded, writing again. “Agreed. If we call Derek back, we can camp here for a few hours until I’m sufficiently rested.”

I relayed Sera’s plan to the rest of the group.

“I’m not confident a summoned karvensi is going to be sufficient to repel wind of that strength,” Orden remarked, “But it is the best plan I’ve heard so far. I’ll send Derek the message.”

Orden whispered into the air. I couldn’t hear her words, but with my attunement active I did see a hint of mana leaving her mouth. It was a strange effect.

I turned my attunement back off, checking my mana. 34/48. Still safe, but I was getting close to the point where I usually stopped.

Ten minutes later, Derek still hadn’t come back.

“Anyone else getting a little worried?” Vera asked. “I mean, he’s an Emerald and all, but he’s not invincible. What if something happened?”

“Unless someone has something new to contribute, I don’t believe we have any option other than waiting,” Professor Orden replied. “I wouldn’t be overly concerned, however. In spite of his bluster, Derek is quite creative.”

This was emphasized when Derek’s fist burst through the wall behind me a moment later.

I startled, standing up and nearly stumbling back into the wind. Jin caught me and steadied me.

Derek punched his way through the rest of the wall over the following couple minutes. “Phew. That was rough. This wall isn’t thin like the one we were supposed to go through.”

I blinked. “What happened? And didn’t you say we’re supposed to not destroy the normal walls, because of spire guardians and such?”

“Yeah, that’s the funny thing. I realized a spire guardian was just what we needed. Punched a wall a whole bunch until one showed up. Huge iron golem, really mean. Then I punched through him, too.” Derek cracked his neck, and then wiped his lips.

Was that blood?“Anyway, his body is big and heavy enough that the wind can’t push it. Unfortunately, I can’t push it very well, either. Thing must weigh more than a train car. So, I busted all the way through here. His body is blocking the wind on the other side of the passage. He’s around the middle of the room, though, so it won’t get us the whole way through.”

“If I can get in half-way, I can look for ways to disable the wind. There’s probably a trigger somewhere,” Vera suggested.

We pushed ourselves to our feet. Derek’s strength had come through forus again, but we’d need to handle the rest ourselves.

And, at a second glance — yeah, his lip definitely was bleeding. Even he wasn’t invincible.

We carefully made our way through Derek’s hand-made tunnel, emerging behind the colossal form of the fallen spire guardian.

Derek hadn’t been kidding about how large it was. The golem must have been thirty feet tall when it was standing. Now, fallen on its side, its shoulder was just about as high as I was tall.

That realization made me look up. The ceiling of this room was absurdly high, probably thirty meters up.

Across the room, I could see a series of runes on the wall that were generating the blasts of wind. If we could neutralize those runes somehow, we could stop the gale.

Between the runes was, of course, another door. No sign of a lock on this one.

“How high up do you think the wind goes?” I asked Orden.

“Interesting. If you’re thinking I could levitate someone above the wind, and then lower them next to the door... You’re probably right, but the winds would still catch them on the way up.”

“Can you disable the runes if you get close enough?” “Yes.”

I still wasn’t very familiar with how to disable existing enchantments, but I knew it could be done. If Orden said she could do it, I had no doubt that she could.

I turned to Vera. “Vera, can you check how high the wind goes?”

She nodded. “Yeah, I can detect that if I touch the wind. One second.” She stuck a hand into the wind, jerking it back a second later. “Only goes up about twenty feet.”

I turned back to Orden. “Could you levitate Derek up, then across the room once he’s out of the wind, and then lower him back down in front of the door? I don’t see a rune right next to the door itself.”

“Certainly, but Derek could not turn off the runes. Ah, you want to use Derek as an anchor, then I can teleport to him. Yes, that will work.” She turned to Derek. “Derek, brace yourself up against the wall. I’ll lift you, but the wind will be pushing against you full-force for a bit, so use your shroud defensively.”

Derek nodded. “Yes, Professor Orden.”

Derek walked over to position himself with his back up against the wall and braced against it. That’d prevent the wind from slamming him straight into the wall, at least.

“Levitate.”

Professor Orden raised her hand and Derek floated upward. When he rose above the level of the golem, the wind visibly bombarded him, pushing against his clothes. He just stretched his hands outward, pushing right back.

He floated upward more slowly with the wind causing him to drag against the wall, but when he got above twenty feet, he slipped free of the wind’s force. Orden moved her hand and he floated safely across the room, then back down right in front of the door. As we’d predicted, there was no wind right in the doorway. He was safe there.

“Teleport.” Professor Orden disappeared, reappearing next to Derek. “Keep me steady,” she told him.

“Yes, Professor Orden.”

Derek held onto Professor Orden as she reached into the wind and pushed her arm toward the closest wind rune. Within a moment of her hand touching the rune, it visibly dimmed until the glow was completely gone.

They repeated the process, walking around the room until the last of the wind runes was extinguished.

“Great idea, Corin.” Derek gave me a friendly nudge. “I was not looking forward to having to try to walk all the way across the room in that. The wind was getting more intense the further I pushed through it.”

I nodded. “No problem. Glad I could help. Also, way to make an entrance there.”

He laughed. “I do love my entrances. C’mon.”

We made our way to the door. I glanced back toward the golem, pondering if I could salvage any part of it, but I didn’t know the first thing about how they worked. Maybe I’d ask after we saw what was in the next room.

“Everyone ready? You may want to step out of the way of the door, just in case we get another nasty surprise.”

We all quickly complied. Derek swung the door open.

Inside was a simple square room with a large fountain flowing with fresh water. There was a door directly on the opposite side, as well as a door to our left.

The doors were heavy stone rather than the wooden ones we’d been seeing in most of the rooms, but they looked fairly ordinary otherwise.

Aside from that, the room looked completely empty. Derek glanced back at Vera. “Vera, check for death traps?”

“You bet.” Vera knelt down at the doorway, touching the tile, then touching the wall above it. “Seems safe right at the entrance. Give me acouple minutes to poke around?” None of us were in a hurry.

While she checked for traps, I turned to Derek. “That golem have any worthwhile parts we could take?”

He shook his head. “Not unless you’re a Caelish engineer. Huh.” He glanced at Vera. “Actually, maybe she could do something with it. I don’t know much about golems, but they’re mostly mechanical. Mana powered, but they’re mostly mechanical parts. I wouldn’t know how to get to the mana core without breaking it, but she might.”

It was a couple more minutes before Vera came back. “Room seems safe.

Fountain seems safe, too.”

“Thought so. It’s a mana fountain. They’re commonly found in safe rooms.”

I blinked. “Mana fountain? As in, that’s liquid mana flowing in there?”

Derek laughed. “Nothing quite so grand. It’s just water infused with a bit of life mana and water mana. Helps speed up recovery after a particularly dangerous room, or right before one. Bad news is that I’m pretty sure the room we just went through was the easy room.”

“Meaning that the next room — or rooms — will likely be exceptionally dangerous,” Orden finished. “Very well. We should all head inside and indulge in the fountain.”

We headed in, but I frowned when I sat at the fountain’s side. “Is it really clean for us to drink from this? Wouldn’t there be, like, hundreds of years of diseases?”

Professor Orden laughed. “It’s self-cleaning. Look at the runes over here.”

Huh. I didn’t recognize most of the runes she showed me, but I was able to pick out the ones that made it refill with water, as well as ones that called mana and life mana into it.

I borrowed some of Vera’s paper and sketched the remaining runes down, tucking the notes away in my backpack, then drank the water.

It was cold. Like, goddess, I didn’t know I could feel that cold without experiencing pain.

As strange as the feeling was, though, it wasn’t strictly uncomfortable.

After the first sip, I started to acclimate to it, drinking my fill.

Out of curiosity, I checked my mana watch afterward. 39/48.

So, it was restoring a bit of my mana, or at least accelerating my natural recovery a bit. But it wasn’t a mana potion, and it wouldn’t get me back to full strength immediately.

That was fine. I was more worried about Sera. She was drinking it as quickly as she could, and I didn’t blame her.

After she’d drank her fill, I passed her the mana watch again, and she registered at -10/112. Still pretty bad, but she’d recovered more mana than I had.

I looked around. “Any objections to resting here for a few hours?” “Actually, I think we might want to plan to spend the night here. It’s veryunlikely we’re going to find another safe spot like this.” Derek scratched his chin.

“I would advise against tarrying here quite that long, but a few hours might be tolerable.” Orden sat at the base of the fountain.

“Why? Are we in any sort of hurry? Thought we had days.” Derek asked. “On Katashi’s deadline, yes. But it would appear that Edrian agents areactive in our city, and I would prefer to resolve this before they have a chance to learn about where we are and plan a counterstrike.”

Derek nodded. “Makes sense. Few hours, then. Vera, want to help me take a crack at that golem? Maybe we can pry the core out of it.”

“Really? Maybe you really are a gentleman.” Vera grinned and looped her arm in his. “Let’s go take a swing at that bucket of metal.”

While they worked, I rested. And for a just a little while, I felt like we were finally safe.

I was, of course, dangerously mistaken.

