CHAPTER XXI — VENOM

My first order of business was making sure that Sera’s condition was stable. Unfortunately, I didn’t have any kind of medical expertise, so that meant the best tool at my disposal was the mana watch. I prodded her with it every few minutes until the result was a greater than zero value, after which we both relaxed a little.

She still wasn’t talking, but we scribbled notes to each other on borrowed paper. Mostly speculation about where we should be going next and general strategy.

Jin seemed content to stare at a wall most of the time, meditating or something similar. Maybe he was just considering tactics. I couldn’t blame him for that.

Professor Orden busied herself with drawing protective runes on the walls, writing some notes, and occasionally whispering into the air. Reporting to her superiors, I imagined. That wasn’t a bad idea.

Once I was convinced that Sera wasn’t getting worse, I followed Orden’s example and got to work.

My first order of business was writing down the runes from the previous room. There were three types; one clearly generated the wind, but I wasn’t sure about the other two. The second had a symbol of transference on the top, so I guessed that it might have been the one designed to recharge the main runes — especially since it was centrally positioned in the room.

The third rune? No idea. I’d assumed it was to exclude an area around the exit door from the wind, but it turned out there just weren’t any runes that were directing wind at that particular spot, so an exclusion rune wasn’t needed. Maybe the third one was a part of a puzzle that was meant to turn off the runes?There had to be a way to handle that chamber without a powerful Enchanter to turn the runes off; maybe that third rune was an off switch.

After a while of studying in that room, I came to the belated realization that Derek and Vera were flirting nearby. And by “I came to the realization”, I mean Derek eventually told me, “We’re flirting, can we please have some space?”

Fair enough, Derek. Fair enough.

So, I, Corin Cadence, master of understanding human mating rituals, left that room to the two of them and tried not to think about that too much.

I decided early in the break that I wasn’t going to do anything reckless that could get us into more danger. That resolve lasted about as long as it took for me to get bored: meaning not particularly long at all.

In fairness, my idea was one that could have been beneficial.

When Derek and Vera (presumably) concluded their flirtations and asked Professor Orden to help them examine some of the golem’s components, I took my chance to sit down and open up my book.

No new replies since I’d last checked, which was somewhat disappointing, and maybe a little disconcerting. I’d been hoping for descriptions of each of the rooms we’d passed through. Now that Orden had told me that the Voice of the Tower was a person, though, it made sense for them not to be monitoring the book — or me — at all times.

Dear Voice of the Tower,As previously indicated, I have entered the tower with the intent to rendezvous with Katashi. If you could render any assistance to make this process easier — such as alerting Katashi to our presence and sending him directly to us — it would be most appreciated.

Due to your previously stated concerns about Lyras Orden seeing the book, I have been careful not to open it while in her sight; as such, I will most likely be unable to see if and when you reply unless it is within the next few minutes.

Best, CorinProfessor Orden didn’t return for the next several minutes, so I kept thebook ready. About five minutes later, I received a reply.

Corin,Your message has been received and your caution is appreciated.

I will endeavor to make certain that Katashi finds you at the proper time. Sincerely,Mysterious Book EntityAww, it still liked that name.

Or, he or she, I suppose? It was a little strange to think about there being aperson sending those messages.

Anyway, the book was being vague as usual, but I was comforted to know that it was aware of the situation and might lend help. I’d have felt better if it wasn’t quite as mysterious, but it was living up to its name, and there was still a degree of comfort in predictability.

It was about an hour later that Professor Orden finally returned to the room, with Vera and Derek right behind her. She was holding a crystal sphere the size of a fist. A quick attunement activation told me it had a thick jade aura. I didn’t know much about golems, but I assumed that had to be the creature’s core, and if it was an Emerald-level crystal that was a very valuable find.

They all looked pretty pleased and I didn’t blame them.

“There’s no need to panic,” Orden began, immediately inducing my reflex to panic, “But I’ve received a message from another Wayfarer that a group of climbers from Edria has entered the tower. There is a possibility that this is a coincidence, but I believe it would be prudent to expedite our journey. How is Miss Cadence’s recovery coming?”

We checked the mana watch. 24/112. Not a lot of mana to work with, and it was definitely coming back more slowly than it normally would. Going beyond her safe value must have wrought some serious havoc on her lungs. “She’s still extremely low on mana and she can’t talk,” I answered, and she nodded in agreement. “I think we should give her another hour or two.”

Orden shook her head. “We can’t take the risk. I have been speaking with Derek and Vera, however, and we believe it may be wise for the three of us to press on ahead without the rest of you.”

I stood up. “I should go with you. I have a responsibility to see this through, and Katashi asked me to handle this. It may be easier to talk to him safely if I’m present.”

And I want to make sure I get any information I can out of the talk with Katashi. I still don’t know enough about everything that’s going on here.

Derek turned his head to Orden. “He’s got a point.”

Orden sighed. “No, he doesn’t, Derek. He’s just being egocentric. Katashi will be overjoyed to meet with Vera regardless of who brings him, and we can always have Katashi follow us to Corin’s location afterward to remove the mark.”

Derek’s jaw tightened, but his reply sounded cheerful enough. “You’re right, Professor Orden. He does not have a point.”

Something seemed...off about that exchange.

“We will not be a burden.” Jin stepped closer to me, taking up a position at my right side. “Sera has proven valuable thus far. Corin and I will endeavor to carry similar weight.”

Professor Orden pointed at the door on the other side of the room. “Let’s see how dangerous the next couple rooms look before we make a decision. Derek, why don’t you go take a look at the other rooms?”

“Yes, Professor Orden.” He headed toward the door near me immediately, turned the handle, and opened it.

There it was again. His formality, his eagerness to agree to everything she was saying immediately. Something wasn’t right.

As he turned his back to us, I activated my attunement and looked at him. Beneath his usual shimmering Emerald aura, I saw a few other sources of magical energy. The glow from his swords was unsurprising, and I noted that his tunic also carried an enchantment. He was wearing two enchanted rings as well, one on each hand.

The one that Professor Orden had given him wasn’t glowing, but it wasleaving a trail. A crimson trail of mana that connected him directly with her.

It faded almost as quickly as I’d noticed it, but I was certain I’d seen it — and I understood what I was seeing.

Okay, Corin. Don’t panic. You know she said the ring was a precaution.

Investigate, prepare, but don’t panic.

I offered Sera a hand and helped her stand up. She accepted it wordlessly.

We looked inside the door that Derek had opened. It was one of the largest rooms I’d seen so far, dome shaped and covered in what looked like spider web, but with strands as thick as my arm.

I didn’t see the spider itself, but I wasn’t sure I wanted to.

There was another door on the other side of the room, but it was a wide stone one with runes on the surface. I didn’t see an obvious door handle. It was probably meant to open and close under specific conditions.

“Looks like a spire guardian room,” Derek explained. “And I think I can see where the stairway will appear.” He pointed at a square tile in the middle of the room. “It should manifest once we beat the guardian, but I can’t say ifit’ll go up or down. If it goes up, we’ll have to keep pushing on. The way down probably wouldn’t be much further.”

“How dangerous is the guardian likely to be?” Sera asked.

“Probably not too bad, given that we’re still on the first floor. As a general rule, a group of six Carnelians — or one or two Sunstones — can usually handle the guardians dedicated to blocking off the first few stairways. Obviously that means it won’t be much trouble for me.” Derek flexed his arms, and Sera rolled her eyes in response. “Better check that other door.”

Derek headed to the last door we hadn’t checked, which was directly opposite from where we’d entered. He opened it as soon as he got there, peering inside.

I considered our current placement while he was out of arm’s reach.

Vera was standing over by the entrance to the wind room, next to Professor Orden. That was bad.

Derek was about as far from Orden as possible, though, which was good. Jin and Sera were right next to me, which was also good.

“Hey, Vera, come here a sec.” I waved to her and she approached.

One preparation in place.

“Not much in this one.” Derek turned around, closing the door. “Big box in the back is a mimic. I could handle it, but there isn’t much of a point. We aren’t here for treasure, and there aren’t any other doors in there.”

I leaned over to whisper in Sera’s ear. “When I give you the signal, make a wall.”

Sera gave me an inquisitive look paired with the slightest nod.

Two preparations in place.

I reached into my bag, adjusting the position of my return bell to make it easier to grab. Vera, Jin, and Sera were all close enough to be in the bell’s range.

Professor Orden turned toward the large group of us by the spider room’s door. “I believe that if we’ve discovered the location of a stairway, it would be prudent for the veterans among us to go handle the spire guardian and proceed.”

I shook my head. “Even if Sera needs to wait here, I really should go along. Jin can stay here with her and make sure her condition doesn’t get any worse, but I should really be there for the meeting with Katashi.”

“I’m sorry, Corin, but it’s just not safe for you to come along. I insist. You agree, don’t you, Derek?”

“Yes, Professor Orden.”

That confirmed it in my mind. She was actively trying to edge me out of completing this assignment. I folded my arms. “His agreement doesn’texactly count for much when you’re controlling him, Professor.”

She folded her hands in front of her. “That’s quite an accusation, Corin.” A grin spread across her face. “But I’ll admit, it’s an accurate one.”

Derek’s hand moved — but not quickly enough. “Derek, stop,” Orden commanded.

He froze in place. After a moment, he visibly trembled, his hand already atop the ring.

Orden casually gestured at him with her right hand. “Derek, withdraw your hand from the ring. Then freeze in place.”

He straightened his spine, moving his hand away from the ring, and then stopped moving entirely.

Near me, Jin and Sera had both drawn weapons, but they didn’t seem to know who to point them at.

“Now, everyone be calm,” Orden began. Derek visibly slumped, and Orden frowned. “I didn’t mean you, Derek. Bah.” She shook her head, turning toward me. “Now, Corin. I commend your observation, but you should have simply said something to me in private if you had concerns. Derek is under my control for all of our safety. You are, after all, the one who told me that you suspected he’d been involved in Tenjin’s capture.”

I sighed. “I was suspicious of him, yes, but this doesn’t seem like an appropriate response.”

Orden raised an eyebrow. “How so? Too extreme of a precaution? I do remind you that he’s an Emerald.”

Vera frowned. “She’s got a point, Corin. You think he’s the swordsman I saw before?”

I shook my head. “I was considering it, but I’m finding it less likely now. Professor, I’m not worried that it’s too extreme of a precaution. My problem is that if you can control his actions, you could have determined if he was guilty the moment he slipped on the ring — and you chose not to use it for that purpose.”

Orden opened her hands upward in a gesture of concession. “True, but I was trying to be subtle. I didn’t want anyone to have undue suspicions of Derek if it wasn’t necessary. Moreover, now that he’s aware of the ring, he’s undoubtedly going to try to find a way to break out. Difficult, to be sure. The ring is directly on his skin, so his shroud can’t help. Still, I would have rather kept him unaware of the ring except for emergency situations.”

“Well,” I began, “Now that he knows, there’s a simple way to resolve some of this. Order him to answer all of my questions directly and honestly, and I’ll ask him if he was involved.”

“Why the extra layer? I could simply ask him myself.”

“Because you’ve already been manipulating him to support your arguments. Like, for example, to leave me behind. I don’t trust you not to phrase questions in a way that forces him to reply the way you want him to.”

“Very well, I’ll humor you.” Orden turned to Derek. “Derek, answer Corin’s questions completely honestly.”

I backed up a bit, putting my back to the door to the spider room, so I could easily look to see both Derek and Orden on opposite sides of the chamber. “Derek, were you involved in the disappearance of visage Tenjin?”

He shivered. I braced myself, my hand going to the sword at my side, but his reply was simple:“No.”

I nodded, relaxing my grip on the weapon. “Okay. Have you ever attacked Visage Tenjin or any other visage?”

“No.”

“When you entered this tower, did you do so with the intent of causing harm to anyone here?”

“Not if it was avoidable.” I raised an eyebrow. “Elaborate.”

He didn’t reply.

Ah, I didn’t ask him a question. Gotta rephrase.

“Under what circumstances would you have caused harm to a member of this group?”

Derek focused his eyes on me. “If someone attempted to stop you from fulfilling your mission, I would have intervened on your behalf.”

I glanced back to Orden, worried that she might try something drastic, but she didn’t seem to be making any moves just yet.

I turned back to Derek. “Are you aware of anything related to Tenjin’s disappearance?”

“Yes.”

There we go.

“What do you know about it?”

His eyes shifted to Orden, then back to me. “I have a pretty good idea of who was involved and why.”

I nodded. “Who was involved and what do you know about their motives?”

“The initial group that entered the tower consisted of Vera, my friend Carter, Elora Theas, and some others from Caelford that I didn’t know. Carter and Elora were working with some kind of secret society. I don’t know all the details, but when Tenjin showed up with his attendants, Carter and Elorastarted a fight. Tenjin’s attendants stabbed him in the back, and I’m pretty sure they were—”

“Derek, stop.” Orden clapped her hands, and Derek shut his jaw. Orden smiled. “Well, this is all quite interesting. It’s obvious Derek wasn’t responsible.”

I turned back to her. “What are the odds that one of the names he was about to say was ‘Professor Orden’?”

“Quite high, I’d say, although my friends usually call me Lyras. Yes, yes, I had Tenjin kidnapped. I was truly hoping to avoid this conversation, but I suppose it’s inevitable now.”

Jin raised a pistol, not quite pointing it at Orden, but keeping it at the ready. “We may be having a bit more than a ‘conversation’.”

She looked at Jin with a hint of surprise, like she was seeing him for the first time. Then, blinking, she continued. “Oh, don’t be so eager for violence, Jin. I believe you’ll agree with me when you hear my motives — but even if not, I would urge you not to attempt any violence. After all, Derek was the only one of you who presented any threat to me, and he’s quite thoroughly under my control.” Orden rubbed her forehead. “Really, this is such a bother.”

Sera glanced at me, then meaningfully shifted her eyes toward Derek. I shook my head just slightly.

Not yet, Sera, but I’m glad you’re ready.

“Okay, Professor.” I waved a hand at her. “Tell us why you kidnapped a visage.”

Orden chuckled. “Oh, it’s so much more than that, Corin. You’re thinking too small. Why don’t you ask Vera what she was doing in the tower in the first place?”

I didn’t take the bait, so I just shrugged. “Research. Artificial attunements or something like them.”

Vera winced. “That...may be a slight understatement.”

Oh, goddess curse it, Vera. What now?Without looking away from Orden, I said, “Okay, Vera. Fill us in.”

Vera nodded. “Guess there’s no point to keeping it a secret now. You met Echion, yeah? Well, he’s the result of a joint defense project between Caelford and Valia. An extremely important project; one we’ve been working on for decades. Something that could have helped keep us safe from Edria for generations.”

Professor Orden raised a hand to her chin. “You’re still dodging the real issue, Vera. Why don’t you tell us exactly what Echion is?”

“He’s...” Vera glanced from side-to-side. “His attunement is unique. It’s not like a human attunement. It’s structured more like the power used by agod beast.”

Okay, Orden might have succeeded at deflecting our attention after all.

Everyone’s eyes shifted to Vera. I replied first. “Wait, what?”

Vera scratched the back of her head sheepishly. “We’ve been able to replicate existing attunements for years. Echion is our first success at making a completely new one. It’s distinct from what the goddess grants, and vastly more powerful than any individual standard attunement. He’s still learning how to use it, but eventually...”

“Eventually he’ll be like a human with the power of a god beast,” Jin concluded.

That’s a line of research I wouldn’t mind hearing more about, but it obviously has the potential to be dangerous. And it sounds like they weren’t careful enough.

Vera closed her eyes. “That’s the light of it. We brought him here to test him in the tower, but someone must have tipped Tenjin off. Carter or Elora, I suppose. I still don’t understand why. They were both a part of the project.”

“Because you lacked foresight.” Professor Orden raised a hand and pointed up. “Tenjin was always going to find you in the tower. We just expedited the process. And we saved you from him. Tenjin would have annihilated your group. I know because he told me. I am one of his Whispers, after all.”

Vera stepped toward Orden, arms folded. “Well, if you were doing us such a great favor, you could have told us about it. And, you know, not beat the pants off of us afterward?”

Orden opened both hands in a gesture of peace. “If all had gone according to plan, you would have woken up safely in a lab with the rest of your companions — who are all safe, I assure you, and cooperating quite nicely.”

I sincerely doubt that last part, unless by “cooperating” she means “under the control of magic rings”.

Orden glanced away from Vera. “Unfortunately, Tenjin didn’t fall quite as easily as we expected. He managed to cast a spell to summon help before he lost consciousness. We were forced to grab the people closest to us and flee. Sadly, that led to Katashi finding your unconscious body at the scene and throwing you into prison. It took some time before one of my fellow companions was able to make enough adjustments to lead someone to your prison to free you.”

I raised an eyebrow. “If you had influence over the tower, why not just free her directly?”

The professor opened a hand. “If he’d simply freed Vera directly, he’d have been noticed, but Whispers work within the tower and often make layoutchanges. Making a trail for you just looked like he was doing an extension of his normal work. Katashi would have discovered the tampering if he checked the prison in any detail, of course, but he’s never been much of an investigator. We gave him a false enemy and he followed that lead instead.”

“Keras,” I realized. “When we freed him at the same time as Vera, he became the primary suspect. Both for me and, presumably, for Katashi as well. You used Keras to distract away from what you were up to.”

Sera pointed her sword at Orden. “And all those Edrian troops began maneuvering. Your work as well, I take it?”

“Oh, goddess, no. None of this was ever truly an Edrian conspiracy. They’re always maneuvering. I did enjoy deflecting investigations in that direction, however. I have no doubt that there truly are Edrian spies and agents in our midst, but I am not one of them.”

Orden sighed. “In fact, protecting our nation from Edrian influence is a large part of why we took the actions we did. They have had decades to grow unchecked, with full access to two towers. Our spies believe that Melkyr, one of their visages, may be training their forces directly. Our defenses are insufficient — and that is why we must take drastic steps.”

Orden turned to Vera. “Echion was an excellent start, but one artificial attuned is insufficient. Our tests indicated that he’s probably around Derek’s level of strength and still growing stronger. Quite impressive for a child, but not enough to defend a nation on his own. And certainly not both Caelford and Valia.”

“You want to make more of the new attuned,” Vera surmised. “That was always the plan, but we needed time—”

Orden waved a hand dismissively. “And that’s why we acted, darling. Because you and your friends from Caelford spent years monitoring one test sample when you could have been growing dozens. We would have given you the resources.”

Vera set her jaw. “This ‘we’ you’re referring to. It’s not just a small conspiracy, is it?”

Orden shook her head. “Not at all, dear.” She turned toward Derek. “Derek, dear, stop trying to free yourself.”

A glance toward Derek showed him tremble, then go still again.

“Now,” Orden continued, “Where were we? Ah, yes. I’m working as an extension of the Council of Lords. There is no conspiracy. Just covert actions taken without the knowledge of the general populace. All for the sake of Valia’s survival.”

I could understand the logic.

I had some moral questions about the idea of creating new attuned for theexpress purpose of warfare — even if they were meant to be deterrents to an invasion, rather than offensive tools — but I still could see where she was coming from.

In some senses, I wanted to agree with her. Learning to create our own attunements so that we didn’t have to send more children to die in the spires was a noble goal. Making new attunements that were better than the existing ones had a strong appeal, too. I’d be researching it myself if I had the capability.

I didn’t even mind being lied to or manipulated. I was a little hurt, but I’d be deceptive if I had to do it for a cause on that scale.

I saw flaws in Orden’s plan on other levels, though. More practical ones. “You said before that Tenjin would have destroyed everyone if you hadn’tincapacitated him. What happens when the other visages find out about this? You can’t conceal working on a bunch of artificial attuned forever. What’s your plan?”

Orden nodded. “If you’re all willing to cooperate, I will take Vera to the rest of her team. They need her help in order to continue their studies in an efficient fashion. Vera quite wisely did not share all of her data publicly, and while I’m confident she has records somewhere in Caelford, searching for them would take some time. Cooperation would be far preferred.”

“After that,” Orden glanced from side-to-side, “Katashi would need to be dealt with. Ideally, before your little seven day deadline.”

I raised an eyebrow. “You want to kill Katashi?”

She shook her head. “No, no. Killing a visage or a fully grown god beast is a terrible idea. Their mana density is too high. They’d explode like a bomb, probably leave the city a crater. We’d have to incapacitate him somehow, ideally in a way that makes Edria look responsible. Dalenos will undoubtedly seek revenge if he vanishes. It would be best to point them in the direction of our enemies.”

Jin trembled silently, clenching his jaw tight.

I took a step closer to Orden, balling my hands into fists. “You’re talking about starting a war over a lie — and that’s operating under the assumption you could even hurt Katashi in the first place.”

Orden shrugged. “It’s not impossible. Admittedly, we knew Tenjin’s strengths and weaknesses from working for him for years, and he was always more of a scholar than a fighter. There is no doubt that fighting Katashi would be a more difficult endeavor and there would likely be terrible losses. But we are fighting for the future of our country. I’m sure you can understand that.”

I could understand that. The infuriating part was that she had ideas I could strongly sympathize — even agree with — if she wasn’t talking about startinga war to cover her covert operations. I couldn’t justify bloodshed on that scale for an experiment.

But that wasn’t even my biggest problem.

I folded my arms. “Not only is starting a war to deflect from your research horrifically immoral, it’s an unreliable plan. And you’re gambling our own nation’s survival on it.”

Orden waved a hand dismissively. “If blaming Edria doesn’t work, we’ll find another route. Perhaps we don’t need to move against Katashi. We can find a way to placate him before he deals too much damage. Maybe point him toward Keras again. It’s a manageable problem.”

I saw the bodies of the Soaring Wings that Mizuchi had left in her wake.

And, with all the resolve I could muster, I clenched my fists and said something unwise. “Leaving a trail of dead bodies in the wake of your schemes is not a manageable problem, Orden. If you truly want to protect Valia, you need to stop treating her civilians as acceptable losses.”

Orden closed her eyes. “It’s a utility calculation, Corin. I can—”

I put my hand on the hilt of my sword. “Let me stop you right there. We’ve all heard about stories of sacrificing a hundred to save a million. I get the concept. That’s not the core problem. The problem is that you’re taking a cascading series of greater risks — and several of them have the chance to wipe out the entire population of our country. If a group of freshly attuned students can figure out your plans, do you really think no one else will?”

“But you didn’t figure out my plans, Corin. You saw something amiss, and then I explained my plans. I can see you’re concerned, and that’s understandable. We need to make certain we execute each step of this plan as perfectly as possible to mitigate the very risks you spoke of. I want to work with you, not against you. If you have an alternative suggestion, I’d be glad to hear it.”

I considered that. “Let us finish our mission and deliver Vera to Katashi. Even if you want to fight him at some point, this gives you more time before he starts taking chunks out of our city. Time you can use to research him, find weaknesses like you did with Tenjin.”

“Not possible, I’m afraid. We require Vera’s assistance to expedite our research. And now that you all know my plans, I can’t risk you making contact with Katashi. You could tell him everything I’ve told you.”

Vera folded her arms. “And if I don’t want to help with your little research plan?”

Orden shrugged a shoulder. “That would be quite unfortunate — but I do have more rings.”

The smug expression on her face when she watched Vera’s fists clenchwas enough to finalize my decision.

I didn’t draw my sword. That would be a pointless gesture, one that might have triggered a response from her.

Instead, I offered her a final question. “I don’t suppose there’s any chance that we could convince you to surrender to us?”

Profeessor Orden didn’t even laugh this time. “Oh, Corin. No, there would be no chance of such a thing... You aren’t considering anything foolish, are you?”

I turned to Sera and said, “Signal.” I’d always wanted to make that joke.

She didn’t laugh. She just spun, waved a hand, and said, “Wall.” A wall of ice sprung up between us and Derek.

“Derek, break that wall!” Orden shouted. I heard no response from the other side.

I reached into my bag, grabbed the return bell and charged it with mana, then rang it. I’d made sure that Vera, Jin, and Sera were in range.

Nothing happened.

That was when I remembered that Professor Orden had been drawing runes on the walls, presumably including anti-teleportation ones.

Vera turned and blinked at me. “Uh, that clearly didn’t work. Now what?”

I shoved the bell back in my bag. “Now we run!” I turned, opened the door to the spider webbed room, and stepped inside.

Sera, Jin, and Vera fell in right behind me.

I slammed the door shut. “Watch for the spider.”

Vera took a step closer to me. “Don’t suppose you’d be willing to lend me a weapon at this point?”

I rolled my eyes. “Just take the dueling cane off my belt, you should be used to it by now.”

She unsnapped the cane. “Great! Brings back memories.”

I sighed, reaching into my pouch and pulling out my etching rod. I knew Orden could teleport, but I could play the same way she did.

In the fountain room, I could hear something slam into the ice wall, but I ignored it and focused on drawing the anti-teleportation rune.

When something heavy slammed down behind me, ignoring it was harder. “Uh, Corin, there’s—” Vera started.

“Great Spider,” Sera began. Her voice was barely a whisper. “I am a Summoner, and I wish to make a pact with you.”

Oh, Goddess, please let that work.

I finished drawing the anti-teleportation rune, slammed my hand into it, and shoved mana into the rune as fast as I could. I drew a second rune tomake the door more resilient, charging it in seconds.

My hand stung with the effort of using so much mana that quickly, but buying us time was the best thing I could think to do.

“No pact, Summoner. I hungry.”

I spun around. Sera was holding her throat, looking ill.

I don’t know why I’d expected the spider to only be human sized, or maybe something reasonable like wagon sized.

It turned out to have a main body more like the size of a train car, with each of its legs a twenty-foot spike.

It perched on a web about ten feet up and about forty feet distant from us. From the look of those legs, it could probably cross the distance in a single jump.

“Jin, Vera, hold the door shut.” They moved to comply.

I turned my head to address the spider, reaching into my bag. “Great Spider, could we interest you in eating a delicious mana crystal instead of us?”

The spider clicked its mandibles together, then I heard a reply in my mind. “Eat you first, then eat your mana crystals.”

Okay, wasn’t expecting it to be that smart. New tactic.

I shook my head. “I’m afraid there’s a problem with that. There’s a really strong human in the room behind us, and she’s about to break in here and eat us before you can. Could I maybe convince you to seal the door behind us shut in exchange for a mana crystal? Then you can try to eat us after that.”

The spider’s legs bent.

That was the only warning we got. Fortunately, we were all looking right at it, and we had the instinct to scatter.

The spider hit the ground with a resounding crack, smashing the ground where we’d been a moment before. And then, to my surprise, reared up and.... fired? ... a gigantic web out onto the door.

I was a little pleased that it’d taken my idea, even if it had tried to crush us in the process.

I was less pleased when I realized I’d dodged directly into a web, and my legs were very firmly stuck against the gooey surface.

I wasn’t the only one in similar shape. Sera had it worse, having fallen backward onto a web. She was struggling, but her whole body seemed stuck.

Vera and Jin had gotten out of the way successfully, though, and they were both opening fire.

Jin aimed straight at the creature’s head, unleashing a hail of bullets. He hit repeatedly, and the bullets sunk in, but it was unclear if they did any damage.

Vera started running toward the other side of the room, deftly dodging bits of webbing, while firing the dueling cane at the spider’s center of mass. The bolts of mana seemed insignificant striking a creature of that size, but nevertheless it let out a hiss and turned toward her. Apparently, mana blasts hurt more than bullets, at least against giant spiders. Who knew?I drew my sword and started cutting. That didn’t help much. The sword cut effectively, but it also got stuck almost immediately. After a moment of consideration, I pushed on the mana aura around the sword and managed to finish severing the first bit of web that way.

After that, I turned and slashed the air to push a wave at the webbing sticking to my other leg. That got it free.

I ran for Sera, still struggling against her own web.

I heard a crack as something smashed into the door near us. Derek. He’d gotten through Sera’s wall and he was coming for us. Resh. I’d hoped we’d have more time.

Jin and Vera continued pummeling the spider with shots, but it reared up again and blasted a vast web in Vera’s direction. She managed to throw herself to the side, but it still caught her on the left arm and leg, dragging her backward with the force of the expulsion. She hit the back wall, stuck in place.

I slashed in the air, making the now-familiar gesture to project waves of energy to cut Sera free. She fell backward and hit the floor when the final piece of webbing fell away, then I helped her extract herself from the mess.

Another thud against the door, and another.

Derek’s fist broke through and stuck on the webbing, and I rushed forward to try to grab at the ring — if I could have pulled it off, maybe I could have freed him — but he retracted his arm too quickly.

The spider continued barreling toward Vera, too fast for me to catch up. I made a couple slashes in the air toward it, managing a hit against a leg, but that barely seemed to slow it down.

Jin paused to reload.

The spider reared up, ready to jam a spiked leg right into Vera’s chest. “Wall,” Sera whispered, pointing a hand and bursting into a coughing fit.

The wall of ice shot upward from the floor, catching the spider’s front legs and pushing them upward. The spider fell backward, chittering, and I heard a voice in my mind.

“No! Stop! Food mine!”

I grabbed Sera with my left arm and began to push her forward. We needed to move. “That was great, Sera. Stay with me.”

She nodded, leaning heavily on me, and coughed again.

Resh it all, I need to do something.

“Sera, switch swords with me for a second.” We swapped blades, and I felt comforted with the familiar weight of Selys-Lyann in my hand.

I slashed at the air and pushed on the weapon’s aura, making a wave of cutting ice. The frozen blade cut deeply into the creature’s hindquarters, drawing visible blood and beginning to spread.

That caught it’s attention.

I stepped forward, letting go of Sera briefly, and unleashed a torrent of cuts.

I’d never tried pushing the slashes rapidly with this weapon. It turned out it didn’t work as well with the one I’d made. The sword’s aura was undoubtedly stronger, but after I pushed the ice away it took a few seconds to reform around the blade.

The end result was that I ended up firing out tiny, insignificant spikes of ice. They hit, but not for any significant damage — and then the spider was barreling toward me.

I heard the door behind us crack again. There were several holes in it now. The rune was slowing Derek’s progress, but he wasn’t going to take much longer.

The spider’s leg came down faster than I expected, and with all my attention focused on attacking, I failed to dodge.

Sera shoved me out of the way.

I stumbled, but didn’t fall. The gigantic leg smashed into the ground where I’d been a moment before. For a brief, horrifying moment, I thought it’d pierced Sera instead of me — but when I saw her on the ground nearby, she wasn’t bleeding. It’d glanced against her, but her barrier had stopped the blow. I could see thick cracks in the barrier, still visible around her.

The problem was that Sera wasn’t getting up.

She was conscious, but the sword had fallen from her hand, and she was only slowly pushing herself from the floor.

Another spider leg was going to pin her before that happened.

I didn’t have the strength to stop the leg from falling, even if I hit it as hard as I could.

Sera, on the other hand, was light.

I turned my gauntlet toward her and sent a burst of transference force into her. The blast slammed into her side, flipping her over and pushing her ten feet across the floor. That looked like it hurt, but the spider’s leg hit the ground harmlessly instead of pulverizing her.

Another leg hit me from behind a second later, slamming me into the ground.

There was a sharp jolt of pain in my back, accompanied by crushing pressure.

I heard a crack and felt another surge of agony.

I really hoped that wasn’t my spine buckling under the pressure.

I coughed, dropped my sword in the surge of pain, and shuddered helplessly on the floor.

I heard a hiss as the pressure relaxed. Instinctively, I rolled the moment that I was free. I was still moving when the leg came down again, smashing against my side and shattering the feeble remains of my barrier.

My phoenix sigil kicked in, the stronger barrier managing to prevent the leg from crushing me until the creature hissed and withdrew its leg.

I looked up, finding the source of the brief respite. Jin was kneeling on top of the creature’s head, repeatedly driving his dagger into the creature’s skull.

I had zero idea how he’d managed to get up there, but he seemed to be doing some damage, until it reared up and threw him right off.

I crawled to Selys-Lyann, my back flaring with agony with every motion. With the sword in my grasp, I tried to stand, but my legs failed to respond. They were feeling rather numb, too. Even if the creature hadn’t snapped my spine like I’d originally feared, it might have done some damage.

Arms seemed to be working, though. So I threw the sword.

Normally, throwing a sword is a terrible idea. Swords aren’t balanced for throwing at the best of times, and doing it without the benefit of working legs was even more difficult.

Fortunately, I didn’t need to hurl the weapon perfectly. I just had to get it airborne.

I was an excellent shot with my gauntlet.

A blast of motion hit the sword directly in the pommel and carried Selys- Lyann into the spider’s neck. It sank in down to the hilt.

I’d been aiming for the head, but hey, close enough.

Ice began to spread rapidly from the wound. The spider toppled forward, rolling on the ground with a crack, seemingly trying to dislodge the weapon without success.

Within another few seconds, the creature’s entire head was ice, and it fell still.

I was jubilant, but I still couldn’t stand.

Sera rushed over to me, one hand still clutching at her throat. She offered me a hand. I accepted it and tried to get up.

That was a mistake.

I’d never felt pain quite like what I felt in that moment. It spread from the middle of my back where the spider had hit all the way up and down my spineand into my legs.

I may have screamed. My vision went red.

When I could see again, I felt Sera wordlessly slip a ring onto my hand.

I sent a surge of mana into it, felt the warmth spread across my back and legs in an instant.

It still wasn’t enough. I laid there for several seconds, tears forming in my eyes, before Jin managed to pick me up and throw me over his shoulder.

“We need to go.” To emphasize that, he began moving at a jog. Every impact he made against the ground sent another surge of agony through my back, only to be countered by a wash of warmth from the ring.

I didn’t know how long it would take the ring to do its work, but for the moment, I was more helpless than I’d ever been.

Glancing from side-to-side, I saw Sera and Vera moving along with us, and that Derek had busted nearly a dozen holes in the door. The pieces of damaged door were getting stuck on the webbing, so he was being forced to pull the stone pieces out before advancing. that was probably the only reason he hadn’t caught up to us already.

We passed by a newly-formed stairway, one that had soundlessly grown in the center of the room into a hole in the ceiling.

If the stairs had gone down, we might have nearly been safe, but nothing was ever quite that easy.

Jin carried me to the doorway of the next room. I couldn’t see it well from my angle, but I could tell it was open now.

“Vera, go back and get Corin’s sword. We’re probably going to need it.” Jin instructed her. I’d never heard him sound that commanding before.

“Got it,” she replied simply, running back toward the spider.

“What am I missing?” I asked. “What’s in the next room? I can’t see it.” “You’re not going to like it.” Jin replied.

I winced as he shifted his stance. “Just tell me, we’re not exactly in great shape either way.”

“Statues shooting jets of fire.”

Oh, goddess resh it all.

I thought back to how both Jin and I had been ‘incinerated’ in the test involving fire-breathing statues and closed my eyes.

Last time I’d used Selys-Lyann to try to shield myself with ice, I’d nearly killed myself that way.

“There’s a door on the other side,” Jin continued, “But there’s also a central floor tile. I think it might be another stairway, if we can get there and trigger it somehow.”

I couldn’t think of a way I could get us there safely.

We all had barriers or a shroud, but if the flames were as intense as the ones in the test, our protection wouldn’t last very long. And Jin couldn’t possibly be mobile enough to dodge flames effectively while carrying me.

The demi-gauntlet? Useless here.

The Jaden Box? No one useful to summon and we had an anti- teleportation rune on the room anyway. Maybe the box would have overpowered the rune, but I didn’t have any good summoning options available either way.

Selys-Lyann couldn’t make walls of ice like Sera could. The aura was designed to cut and spread, not form barriers.

If she wasn’t so exhausted, if she was a bit more powerful, Sera could have made this trivial—And maybe, just maybe, I could make her strong enough.

I tilted my head toward Sera, wincing at the renewed pain. “Sera, just how confident are you that we’re actually siblings?”

She raised an eyebrow at me, her lips twisting toward a frown.

“Asking for a good reason. I have a waterskin containing a liquid from the tower that I think is probably an enhancement elixir of some kind.” I closed my eyes. “Okay, not the time for secrecy. It’s how I got my attunement. I drank this water, I saw the goddess, and my attunement appeared. Then I saved some of the water and put a preservation enchantment on the waterskin.”

She lifted a hand to her mouth, and I heard the sickly scrape of ragged laughter before she broke into another fit of coughing.

“Anyway, the important part is that the preservation enchantment isn’t as brilliant as I thought. It contaminated the liquid inside with some of my mana. And drinking something with someone else’s mana in it is dangerous. Potentially fatal. But if we’re siblings, your mana type might be close enough to mine—”

Sera looked straight into my eyes, took a deep breath, and then extended her open hand.

I understood.

“The waterskin is in my belt pouch. I don’t think I can reach it.”

Sera moved to my side, opened the belt pouch, unstoppered the bottle, closed her eyes, and began to drink.

And, within moments, she began to glow. I hadn’t turned my attunement back on.

As she continued to drink the fluid, her aura flickered yellow, orange, red, yellow — and began to spark.

She bent over forward, retching, but only threw up a mouthful of ichor. And, as I watched, that ichor froze into ice.

Sera stood up, reopening her eyes.

They were ice blue without the faintest hint of white. I’d never seen anything close to it.

Sera spun at the sound of another crack from the doorway, lifting a hand. “Wall. Wall. Wall.”

Her voice was strong again, unwavering, as the broken section of the doorway was filled with ice. More walls sprung up behind it, thicker than the ones she’d conjured before.

Sera turned back to me and shivered before speaking again. “We should go. I will forge a path.”

Sera took one more drink from the flask, grimaced, and restoppered it.

Then she put it back in my pouch.

“Woah, nice work there, Sera!” Vera arrived with Selys-Lyann in hand and my other sword in her other hand. “That a mana potion or something?”

Apparently she hadn’t been able to hear the conversation from where she was standing. That was probably a good thing.

“Something like that,” Sera replied. “Corin, may I borrow your mana watch?”

I nodded and handed it to her.

Vera took a step back. “Uh, your eyes, Sera—”

“I’m fine for now. Wasn’t an ordinary mana potion.” She reached back to press the mana watch against her attunement mark. As she did, I got a look at it.

It was no longer a Summoner Attunement. It was like nothing I’d ever seen.

Attunements always changed in complexity when they grew more powerful. Normally, it was just adding an extra line or shape to an existing design. This was a completely different style, and nothing like any one I’d seen. Not even foreign attunements.

She shivered again as she looked at the watch, then handed it back to me. It read 968/112.

It hadn’t increased her mana capacity properly. She was filled with mana that her body couldn’t properly contain.

“Sera...” I started.

“I know, Corin. I’ll use it as quickly as I can.”

I balled my hands into fists. I couldn’t do anything else. “Wall. Wall. Wall. Wall.”

“The way is clear,” Jin pronounced. “We should proceed.”

I reached into my bag and withdrew my etching tool again. “Bring me next to the door, then the rest of you get inside.

They complied. “Okay, turn me around so I can draw on the door.” “I’m not sure we have time for this, Corin,” Jin noted.

“It’s going to buy us time.” I reached forward, and Jin grudgingly turned me toward the doorframe.

I scratched a rune I’d never actually powered before across a combination of the door and frame. It would only be whole when the door was closed.

“Sera, you’ve got a lung attunement. Can you charge the air near the rune with air mana?”

“Easily,” she replied, and she blew into the air near the rune.

I turned my attunement on, watching the air mana coalesce. It was fascinating. Being in the tower was improving my ability to see mana, just as I’d expected, and I hoped that would be enough to help me manipulate it as well.

I brought my hand up to the mana cloud. For a moment, I could feel it.

And in that moment, I pushed it into the rune.

The rune’s halves flared, charged with power but inactive while they were apart.

“Okay, Jin. Take us in and close the door.”

Everyone was inside the room when he slammed it shut. The rune-halves met, forming a wind rune.

The door shook as the rune sent a continuous stream of wind toward where Derek was still working at demolishing the walls of ice.

I hope that’s enough to slow him down once he gets through the wall.

I kept the etching tool in hand, scratched an anti-teleport rune into the back to the door, and then charged it with my own mana.

“Okay, we can move now.”

As we moved forward, I scanned the room. Sera had been very thorough.

All four walls of the room were encased in ice. The statues were still active, breathing their fire, but the ice was thick enough that they’d barely made any progress at melting through.

We moved to the center of the room, finding the square that indicated thepresence of another stairway.

Vera knelt down, touching the tile. “There’s a mechanism somewhere that moves this tile out of the way. Staircase is right under it.”

“Move out of the way.” Vera moved.

“Ogre, I summon you.”

An ogre appeared at Sera’s side, shimmering with an icy aura across its skin. “Master,” it groaned toward Sera.

“Ogre, break through this floor tile to reveal the stairway.” We all cleared the way.

The ogre smashed through the tile in a single blow, then took a few more moemnts to clear away the rubble. “Please the Master?”

“Yes, ogre, you’ve done well. Now, stay here and guard the top of the stairway. Don’t allow anyone to follow us down here. Don’t kill them, just incapacitate them.”

“Yes, Master. I good at stop people.” The ogre nodded happily.

I was pretty impressed. Being a powerful Summoner was useful. “Okay, let’s head on down,” I pronounced.

“I’ll go first and check for traps,” Vera offered, heading down the stairway. After a few moments she returned. “All clear.”

My back was still in a great deal of pain, but I was starting to feel a tingling sensation — accompanied by periodic spurts of pain — in both legs. I thought that was probably a sign that I was recovering, but I didn’t know how much longer the process would take.

Jin carried me down the stairs, and Sera followed last. “Wall.”

Sera formed a barrier of ice at the top of the stairway, right where the tile had previously stood. Not a bad idea.

Then she shivered again, and I began to worry. “You feeling okay, Sera?”

“No time for worrying about that,” she replied. That was a bad sign. We reached the bottom of the stairs and found a door.

Vera checked it, then opened it.

The room it led into was very familiar.

It was a two-story room with a massive stairway in the center, three doors downstairs, and pristine red carpeting covering much of the floors.

Four tall pillars stood from floor to ceiling, though one of them had a large crack from where Keras had smashed into it, and another had a huge chunk missing.

Vera sucked in a breath. “Well, I suppose this is it, then. How do we getKatashi’s attention?”

Professor Orden appeared right in front of us.

I hadn’t had time to draw an anti-teleportation rune in this room yet.

“I believe,” Orden raised her hands, lightning crackling in between them, “It’s time to teach you children how to behave.”

