CHAPTER XXII — PERMAFROST

On the minus side, apparently Professor Orden had lightning magic.

On the plus side, that didn’t mean a whole lot when she was standing right next to us.

Vera must have realized that at the same time as I did. Still holding both of my swords — I really needed to stop letting her take all my weapons — Vera stepped in and started swinging. Orden dodged the first couple swings, then vanished without a word.

She reappeared about ten feet back, then hurled the lightning at us. The bolt hit Vera dead-on, then arced to hit the rest of us.

My second barrier, already heavily taxed, snapped. Only a little bit of the lightning managed to make it through, but it still hurt. I shuddered and bit my tongue hard enough to draw blood.

Jin set me down a moment later. “I need to handle this,” was all he said.

Fair enough, Jin. Go get ‘er.

“Vanniv, I summon you.”

By the time I managed to push myself into a seated position, Vanniv was floating next to Sera.

“Oh, hey, finally in the tower! Nice room, too. I dig the choice of décor.” The winged man turned his head toward me. “You look kind of terrible.”

“Yeah, thanks, Vanniv. Need you to focus.” I pointed at Orden. “She’s trying to kill us.”

“Now, that’s a bit of an exaggeration,” Orden replied, forming globes of flame in her hands. “I need Vera alive at a minimum. The rest of you? Well, I’d still prefer you alive.”

I put a hand to my forehead. “Comforting. I don’t suppose you could tell me where you got another attunement? Elementalist doesn’t seem like your flavor.”

She grinned. “Just more items, darling. Give it a few years as an Enchanter, you’ll look like you have every attunement in the world, too. Unfortunately, for now, that means you’re woefully under prepared to face someone like me.”

Vanniv laughed. “Goddess, you love to hear yourself talk, don’t you? I mean, I respect that — my voice is amazing — but you’re coming on a little strong with the megalomania.”

Orden chuckled. “I think I like this one, Sera. Where’d you get him? Never mind. Doesn’t matter. I don’t know where you got enough mana to summon him, but you’re certain to be running—”

“Wyvern, I summon you!”

The vast draconic beast appeared at Sera’s other side, raising its spine-like tail.

Professor Orden blinked. “Well, you’re just full of surprises today.”

Vanniv cracked his knuckles, which briefly made me wonder how that was even possible with stone hands. “You want me to break her, boss?”

Sera nodded. “I’d prefer her alive.”

“Can do.” He flapped his way upward toward the ceiling, moving his hands apart, a lance of ice now forming between them.

“Oh, children. So overconfident. You think a couple pets are going to change the outcome here?” Orden pointed a hand at the wyvern. “Wyvern, I control you.”

The wyvern shuddered in the air, then flapped closer to Orden and landed at her feet.

That was...not a good thing at all. I’d been hoping that she didn’t actually have a Controller Attunement, but even if she didn’t, she apparently still had items that could serve that function.

On the plus side, she hadn’t tried to control us yet. Maybe controlling humans was harder? She’d grabbed Derek, but she needed a ring on his hand.

I really wished I’d taken the time to research foreign attunements.

Vanniv didn’t wait any longer; he just started throwing lances of ice at Orden. She countered the first couple by throwing the globes of fire from her hands, then the wyvern interposed itself between them with a shriek, hissing as the lances impacted its hide for minimal effect.

I didn’t see where Jin had disappeared to, but Vera was charging at Orden. Orden flickered again, appearing all the way across the room — near where I’d come up from the prison — and threw a ball of flame in Vera’s direction.

Vera jumped improbably high, taking her right over the fireball, and hurled my personally-enchanted sword. Orden side-stepped, but then Vera was arcing downward, gripping Selys-Lyann in both hands.

“Teleport.”

Orden vanished again, appearing right behind where Vera landed and sending a blast of lightning into Vera’s back.

Vera staggered, but didn’t fall. She spun around and charged again, a look of determination on her face.

In the air, Vanniv was rapidly hurling blasts of ice and lightning at the wyvern while it tried unsuccessfully to jab him with its spined tail.

Sera was concentrating. With my attunement on for a moment, I could see a trail of mana going from her hands toward the wyvern, and a net of energy forming around it. Presumably, she was either trying to re-establish control or banish the creature somehow. She wasn’t saying anything aloud, so I didn’t bother her.

I tried to stand.

That didn’t work at all.

The pain in my spine was gradually fading, and the wound from biting my tongue had already sealed, but my legs still weren’t fully functional. I was starting to get some feeling back, but my legs buckled as soon as I tried to put any weight on them.

I was fortunate to be recovering at all. Without the barriers to absorb much of the force, I probably would have been snapped like a twig.

That was little comfort when I heard the telltale cracking of repeated blows coming from back up the stairway.

Derek had almost caught up to us, and I was still helpless. Communicate. “Uh, guys, Derek is almost here. Be ready.”

Sera nodded, but continued to focus. I had to hope that would be enough. I didn’t get a reaction from anyone else, at least that I could see.

Vera had caught up to Orden again, only to take a hit from a blast of flame at point-blank range. She shrugged it off — her shroud must have absorbed most of it — and managed to land a hit on Orden’s right arm that caused a barrier to flicker into visibility.

A thin trail of ice began to spread along the barrier where Selys-Lyann had landed.

Good.

I heard a crash from up the stairway.

Less good.

I dug into my bag for options.

I still had a bit of the flask of attunement water or whatever it was, but I had no idea what kind of effect it would have on me. The water had clearly made Sera more powerful, but she wasn’t demonstrating anything new — just extra mana. And it was clearly hurting her, too.

More mana wasn’t going to solve any of my problems. I was an unarmed Enchanter. I had no offensive or defensive capabilities to speak of.

I did, however, still have my sigils, even if they were mostly drained. I grabbed my phoenix sigil and began to pour energy into recharging it.

It was dangerous to push too much mana into it too fast. It was built to recharge itself over time, not to be recharged manually like the school-issued ones. I could feel its capacity pretty easily, though, and it was nowhere close to full. I started gradually filling it back up a bit. I needed all the protection I could get.

After that, I stuck my right hand in the Jaden Box. “Summon Katashi.” Nothing happened, just as I’d expected. Either I needed to close the box,requiring me to remove my hand, or Katashi’s mark just wasn’t a good enough connection to summon him.

I pulled my hand out of the box. Who else could I summon?My standard-issue shield sigil was probably made by a university Enchanter, but I didn’t know who had made it, so I wouldn’t know what name to use if I put the sigil inside. Not good enough.

I didn’t know who’d made the bell, either, or any of my other miscellaneous items.

I had the book. I could try to summon The Voice of the Tower... But that clearly wasn’t the entity’s real name, and I doubted the box would respond to it.

More importantly, Orden worked for the Voice — or at least she claimedshe had. I had to consider the likelihood that bringing the Voice to us might make things worse. We couldn’t afford worse.

I could hear footsteps on the stairs. I was out of time, and I still didn’t have any good summoning options on-hand. I needed someone on Katashi’s level of power to make a difference.

If I didn’t have anything to summon him on me, did someone else? Was there something in the room?I scanned the area.

It was obvious that the battle between Katashi and Keras had continued after I’d left. The place was a wreck. Beyond the new chunks taken out of the pillar that I’d noted before, there were scorched sections of carpet and cleave marks taken out of several walls.

I turned my attunement back on.

I could still see Sera’s net weaving around the wyvern. The wyvern was struggling against it. I finally realized that she wasn’t trying to control or dismiss it. She was pinning it in place with some kind of binding spell, similarto what I’d seen Elora using against Keras. I didn’t realize that Sera knew a similar spell, but it made sense.

Vanniv was still smashing the wyvern with ranged spells, flapping out of the way when it managed to maneuver its tail. The wyvern was battered, but still glowing with an orange aura. Sera must have pumped a lot of her mana into summoning it, only for the creature to be turned against us.

Vera was still hounding Orden at close range, landing more hits to spread ice across Orden’s barrier. Orden didn’t look worried. She wasn’t even teleporting at this point, just dodging and retaliating with blasts of fire.

I could see a golden shroud beneath Orden’s barrier, implying at least one of her attunements was Citrine level and she was no longer suppressing it. Unsurprising, but good to know. Vera’s aura was still orange, as I’d expected.

But none of those things were what I was searching for. My eyes scanned every surface for anything glowing that looked out of place. I wasn’t disappointed. I found multiple splotches of brilliant color on pillars, on carpet, even a bit on a wall.

Dried blood.

Either Katashi’s or Keras’.

Honestly, at this point, I’d take either.

And, hand over hand, I started crawling toward the closest source — a splotch on the chamber’s central stairway.

Derek arrived at the entrance to the chamber before I got there. “Derek’s here!” I managed to shout, hoping to alert the others in time.

Sera spun, discarding her binding web, and hurled a broad blast of frost at the doorway.

Derek’s hand twitched, then a flaming sword was in his hand, cutting through the ice.

Sera jumped backward. Then she was floating upward, carried by air mana, and hurled more blasts of ice. She winced after the third attack — the effort finally seemed to be taxing her — but Derek was undeterred, walking forward as he struck her spells out of the air.

As Sera paused between breaths, Derek rushed forward and leapt.

I twisted toward him and fired a blast from my gauntlet, but he slapped that aside with the flat of his blade.

“Wall.”

A wall of ice appeared between the two of them. Derek took a chunk out of it with a slash, but the wall was too think to part in a single strike. He impacted the surface and fell back to the ground, beginning to burrow into it with more swings.

Sera floated higher... and started to cough.

Resh. She’s running dry.

Could I get the flask back to her? No, probably not at my current angle, and giving her more was probably dangerous, anyway.

I took another shot at Derek’s back. He deflected it without even looking. I was wasting my time.

Vanniv flew over me, the wyvern managing to smash him with a swipe of its tail as he retreated. He crashed into a nearby wall, recovered quickly, and continued to retreat.

I wanted to help him, but he wasn’t the priority right now.

I kept crawling, but the splotch on the middle of the stairway seemed like miles away.

Derek was almost done cutting through the ice wall. What could I do to stop him?I turned my head toward him. “Hey, Derek. What’s your greatest weakness right now?”

He paused his attack immediately to turn toward me. “Arguably my susceptibility to magic rings.” He blinked. “And apparently I’m still forced to answer your questions honestly.”

I grinned. Finally, something to work with.

“Okay, Derek. What would be the easiest way to free you from the ring’s control?”

“You’d have to take it off.” He turned back to swinging at the ice wall after answering, but I wasn’t done with him.

I kept crawling, talking while I moved. I needed to keep him busy. How?Oh, I’ve got this.

“What is everything that happens in the first book of the Blackstone Assassin series?”

It was a pretty fair gamble that he’d read it. Practically everyone in our generation had, and it was required reading in a lot of schools.

He turned toward me, frowned, and began, “Well, it’s supposed to be his life story. He begins by talking about...”

I tuned him out. More crawling, less Blackstone.

He turned back to the task of chopping at the wall, but he was clearly distracted. His swings were going slower and seemed almost aimless.

I was half way to the blood splotch when Orden appeared at the top of the stairway and turned to Derek. “Derek, stop prattling and knock these children out. Start with Sera.”

“Yes, Professor Orden.”

Resh.

I turned around, finding Professor Orden stalking toward me.

“That was a clever idea, Corin, but it’s over now.” She shook her head, preparing another globe of flame.

A glance downward showed me Vera’s location — face-down on the floor, unmoving.

I turned back to Professor Orden with a grimace. “You’re quite right, Professor. You’ve put up a great fight, but it’s time for you to surrender.”

I reached into my pouch.

“Cute. But you’re the one out of tricks.” I raised a single eyebrow. “Am I, now?” I threw the bell at her.

The bell rang mid-flight, but it wasn’t charged with mana anymore, so I didn’t vanish.

I fixed that with a gray mana blast from my gauntlet when it got close enough for her to be in range.

With my attunement on, I saw air mana and transference mana swell out of the bell to envelope Orden — only to dissipate with no effect.

Orden shook her head. “Adorable. You must be getting desperate to try to teleport me, Corin. Teleportation defenses are the first thing a Wayfarer learns.”

I probably should have expected that.

“Since it’s obvious you’re not going to surrender, we’ll do this the hard way.” The globe of fire in her hand swelled from fist-sized to pumpkin-sized.

There was no way my barrier could handle that, even with the amount I’d recharged it.

I raised my gauntlet, hoping to hit the sphere and combust it, but I knew it wouldn’t be enough.

Orden raised her hand to throw the sphere — and then her head jerked forward. And she fell.

Jin appeared right behind her, shaking his head. He had a pistol in his hand, facing backward. He’d smacked her over the head with it. “She really needs to stop forgetting about me.”

He kicked her body once, flipping her over and down another couple stairs, and then knelt and put a hand on her forehead. I saw a ripple of mana appear over her body. “That should keep her out for a while.

He hit her from so close that her shroud barely cushioned the blow, I realized. Not a bad tactic. But what did he just do to keep her unconscious? Was that an item or his attunement?I was about to ask when Derek landed next to us and punched Jin straight in the chest.

Jin flew backward off the stairway and out of my sight.

I turned my gaze up to Derek. “I was really hoping that knocking her out was going to free you.”

Derek turned his head down to me. “No such luck.”

He jumped to dodge a lance of ice from Sera, then turned his gaze back toward her.

I reached forward to try to grab Derek’s ring hand, but he just pulled it out of the way and then jumped upward to swing at Sera.

Vanniv flew in the way.

Derek slashed him across the chest, drawing a streak of blood, and Vanniv crashed to the ground.

Sera screamed as Vanniv fell, and pointed a hand at Derek. “Wyvern, handle him!”

The wyvern swept downward as Derek descended from his jump, aiming to pierce Derek with its tail. He side-stepped, grabbed the tail, with his off- hand, and chopped the barbed end off with a twitch of his wrist.

Sera hurled another blast of ice at him, but he deflected it as the wyvern screamed in pain and flew backward.

Derek leapt upward again, swinging his sword and sending a golden shockwave of cutting force toward the wyvern.

The wyvern fell to the floor in two pieces, vanishing a moment later.

I blinked. That was a powerful attack. I’d never seen anything tear apart a spire guardian like that.

We were in a lot of trouble if he decided to hit us that hard.

As Derek landed, he swung a backhand. Jin reappeared, staggering with a bleeding nose.

“Not going to work on me,” Derek remarked sadly.

Sera turned her head downward. “Corin, Jin, I need you to buy me thirty seconds!”

Thirty seconds? I doubted I could buy five. I debated options.

Jin just set his jaw and jumped on Derek’s back.

Curse it, I could do that, too.

I crawled closer and grabbed Derek’s left leg with both arms.

“Seriously?” Derek flailed and twisted, trying to dislodge us. I lost my grip first, but Jin was surprisingly strong.

That was when I first noticed Jin’s orange aura — one he’d finally stopped suppressing.

It was nowhere near as impressive as the flashing green around Derek, but it was an incredibly welcome sight.

With my grip failing, I raised my demi-gauntlet and shot a couple blasts oftransference mana into Derek’s side. They failed to carry him off his feet like they would have with anyone else I’d hit, but each hit shook him and distracted him while Jin managed to slip him into a choke hold.

And while we struggled, I heard Sera incant with crystalline clarity.

“Serpent of the deepest depths, Mother of a thousand spawn, Power beyond mortal grasp,I call upon our bond.

My strength to yours is nothing, But my soul to yours demands, Fulfill the oath we made as one, And come to my command!Seiryu, I summon you!”

The entire chamber vibrated.

The room flooded with the power of air and ice.

And, at Sera’s command, Seiryu the God Serpent, her final summoned monster, appeared.

It was a rampart of glistening scales of the brightest blue, its coiled form filling nearly every available inch of the chamber. It was not the full size I had seen before. Even with her enhanced mana, Sera could not have hoped to summon Seiryu at its full strength.

But this...

In Seiryu’s presence, I could do nothing but stare. Even just the aura around it was oppressive, overwhelming — and stark blue. Sapphire.

Derek, it seemed, was less impressed.

He jabbed an elbow backward, and as Jin staggered, he spun and struck Jin across the face. Jin fell backward, collapsing on the stairs.

And Sera, coughing, fell from the sky.

Seiryu moved ever-so-slightly as Sera fell, catching her atop its serpentine head. She landed hard, coughing again, but righted herself.

Even from a distance, I could see that the glow in her eyes was fading. “Seiryu,” she pointed a hand at Derek, “Freeze that man.”

And with that, she collapsed against the serpent’s head.

Derek drew his second sword, facing the god beast head on with a look of grim determination.

Seiryu took a deep breath.

And, realizing what was about to happen, I pushed myself off the stairway.

I hit the floor just before Seiryu exhaled. My back screamed in agony, but the ring flared to keep me conscious.

The blast of permafrost from Seiryu’s jaws spread across a quarter of the room. The sole pillar that was caught in the blast cracked and fractured, and even from the floor, I felt a numbness sweep across my entire body. My barrier flickered into place, then cracked completely apart as the ice continued to slowly spread across the room.

And the breath was still going, the ice still spreading.

In a moment of clarity, I managed to reach into my backpack and pull out the cloak, awkwardly dragging it over the top of my body before the next pulse of cold washed over me.

My legs, fortunately, were already so numb from pain that I barely felt them freeze.

The cloak’s magic offered precious little protection, but it was enough to keep me conscious through the blast.

And as the cold gradually seeped away, I realized that I might have been the only one still awake and aware.

Aside from the giant god beast, of course.

I carefully extracted myself from the cloak, dragging it over my legs and feeling it begin to melt the thin layer of ice away.

Sera had slipped off the creature’s head and fallen to the floor.

Derek was still standing, frozen inside a massive block of ice that enveloped nearly that entire quarter of the chamber.

Within the clear ice, I could still see his flaming sword burning. I could still see his Emerald aura burning bright.

And I could see the ice around beginning to shiver and crack.

You have to be kidding me.

Shivering, I turned my head toward Seiryu. “Uh, Seiryu. Hi.” The vast god beast turned its head toward me, eyes narrowing.

“I’m Corin, your Summoner’s brother. And ally, just to be clear. Since she’s out cold, I’d hope you’d be willing to help me.”

“State your will, brother of my Summoner.”

The chamber shuddered as the god beast spoke, and I trembled along withit.

“That guy she asked you to freeze is actually one of our friends, and he’sbeing controlled by the ring on his right hand. Any chance you could remove it and free him?”

“I can sense the ring, but it is too small. You must remove it. I will clear the necessary ice.”

A moment later, I was floating toward the frozen section of the room, anda section of ice began to visibly melt away.

That meant that the ice around Derek was cracking faster, too.

Seiryu levitated me right next to the Derek’s hand. He tried to twist it free to take a swing, but for once, I was faster.

I reached out and yanked the ring off Derek’s hand. Derek shivered and his Emerald aura flared out.

The ice around him cracked and shattered.

And, now cleared from the ice, he turned his head toward me. “Th—thanks.”

And with that, his aura vanished, and he fell flat on his face. I didn’t even try to catch him. I was too startled.

With that resolved, I turned toward Seiryu. “Thank you, truly, Great One. I don’t suppose you could summon Katashi to help us sort this situation out?”

“No, that is not among my abilities.”

I nodded. “Sera — your Summoner — is she okay? Can you heal her?” “Her condition worsens every moment I remain here.”

The creature’s face twisted into something that I assumed had to be a frown.

“I will grant her a fraction of my strength to sustain her, and then I must go.”

I nodded. “Thank you, Great One.”

The god beast’s eyes met mine. “Do not thank me. It has been centuries since a Summoner as weak as she was brave enough to approach me. I preserve my own.”

With that, the beast turned its gaze toward Sera. And then, with an almost loving motion, it nudged her with its nose and breathed outward again. There was no feeling of cold this time. From my position, I could feel only a surge of energy, almost electrical, in the air.

I saw Sera, still prone on the floor, take in a gasp of breath — and then shiver for an instant before going still.

“It is done.”

Seiryu took one final glance in my direction, dipped its head in something resembling a nod, and then vanished into nothing.

And finally, I felt like I could breathe again.

The first thing I did was crawl over to where I’d dropped my cloak when Seiryu had levitated me.

Then, with my arms sore from effort, I crawled over to Sera and draped the cloak over to her.

“It’s finally over,” I mumbled, carefully pulling fragments of ice out of Sera’s hair.

“It is.” Jin’s voice. He stood Vera, shaking his head.

I was glad to see that he was looking better. He’d wiped the blood off his nose, and though he looked a little shaky, he didn’t seem to have any other obvious injuries.

He turned his head toward me, smiling sadly. “I’m afraid I’m not going to be able to make that date for the winter ball, Corin.”

And then Jin fired two bullets into Vera’s back.

