CHAPTER XXIII — FINISHING MOVES

I leveled my gauntlet at Jin and fired a blast of transference mana immediately, but he just stepped out of the way and shook his head.

“I really am sorry about this.” He turned his gun back to her and pulled the trigger again — only to hear a click. With a shrug, he discarded the empty gun and drew a dagger from inside his coat.

I didn’t know what to do. I didn’t know what was happening. So I fought.

I fired again, this time managing to graze his shoulder and knock him back a few steps.

“Irritating,” he said. “But you can’t stop me. If she’s not already dead, I’ll finish it soon. Don’t worry; I have no interest in hurting you.”

“What are you doing? Stop!” I tried my legs again. The ring had been doing great work. I made it to a half-standing position before my legs collapsed under me again.

Jin sighed. “Just stay down, Corin. It’s nothing personal, but she’s a threat.”

I trembled. Not with cold this time, but with rage. “A threat? She’sunconscious, Jin!”

Jin took a step closer to her, and I fired again. He deflected the shot with his dagger, but the force of the impact nearly forced him to drop it.

Jin shook his head at me. “Not an immediate threat. A long-term threat. I can’t allow you to hand her over to Katashi. Not after everything we’ve just learned. Not after everything she’s done.”

“Okay, I can understand having moral concerns about making god beasts, but this is not the way—”

“It’s not about that, Corin.” Jin sighed. “It’s about protecting my own people.”

“We stopped Orden already, Jin. There’s no need to worry about her tricking Dalenos into a war.”

He closed his eyes. “That was never the concern, Corin.” “What are you talking about?”

With a sigh, he reopened his eyes. “I’m not from Dalenos. I’m from East Edria.”

I clenched my hands into fists. “You. You’re the Edrian spy that everyone has been so worried about?”

Jin chuckled. “I thought your mind would jump that way. That’s why I never told you. Everyone from Edria must be a spy or a traitor. No, Corin, I’m not a spy. I’m just a student who happened to be born in East Edria.”

He shook his head, giving me a sad smile. “You want to know why I never told you I’m from Edria? Because there’s nothing but hatred toward Edria here. Never mind that I’m from the part that was conquered in the same war that Valia is always talking about.”

I...couldn’t argue with that. Not really. If he’d told me he was from Edria, even East Edria, there was no way I wouldn’t have associated him with the Six Years War. I wasn’t above judging people by their place of birth, as much as I wanted to be.

I would have to be better in the future.

I shook my head. “You gave Dalen as your last name, though.”

“My last name is Dalen, Corin. You remember the story from class about the Unbroken Queen? My family were among her retainers. Where I come from, everyone in service to a family uses their family name. Even when the queen finally perished, we kept the name.”

I nodded. “I remember the story. That still doesn’t explain what you’re doing here, though.”

“There’s no conspiracy, Corin. I’m just a transfer student. I never showed you my attunement because I’m a Mesmer. That’s an Edrian attunement. I’m Sunstone because we take our tests at a younger age. I’m not an assassin. I’m not even that much of a patriot, truth be told. But when I hear people are making artificial attuned to use as weapons against my home? I pay attention.”

“Only for defense,” I tried, but the line sounded weak, even to me.

Jin tightened his hand into a fist. “Right, right. I’m sure they’d never realize that they had enough weapons on leashes to try them out. Maybe just wipe a small city off the map to scare Edria a little. You know, as a defensive measure. With acceptable civilian losses. It’s not like they’d be Valian citizens.”

I clenched my jaw. “Maybe you’re right. Maybe someone would use anartificial attuned like that. But you’ve seen Vera. You saw her with Echion. She treated him like a brother, not a weapon. She’s one of the ones that would try to stop this kind of madness.”

He shrugged. “Might be true, but right now? My best bet here is to make sure she never makes it to Katashi — so that he launches the attack that he promised you. And maybe, just maybe, he’ll be thorough enough to eradicate the monsters on your council that were pulling the strings on this whole plan.” I narrowed my eyes. “And the people who live near the tower? Our civilians? Katashi said he was going to send Seiyru next time, Jin. The real Seiryu — not a manifestation like Sera made. A fully-grown god beast, unleashed with the purpose of destruction. That’s exactly the type of thingyou’re trying to stop!”

Jin’s jaw tightened and he turned his head to the side, unwilling to meet my gaze. “You’re right. I’m behaving just like Orden, in a sense. I know that. I value my home over yours. And, if need be, I’m willing to sacrifice your home in order to save mine. Maybe that makes me just as much of a monster as the people I’m fighting. Maybe it’s just human nature.”

“I won’t accept that.”

I pushed my hands against the ground. I clenched my jaw.

And, with trembling legs, I stood.

I flexed my legs experimentally. I felt a momentary surge of pain in the right one, but it held. “I won’t accept that either of our nations has to suffer a tragedy. And I will find a way of stopping it — even if that means stopping you.”

Jin stepped into a dueling stance, knife pointed toward me. “Even if you have to kill me?”

I clenched my hands into fists. “I’d really rather avoid that. But I’ll do what I have to do to stop a slaughter.”

Jin laughed. “You’ve got more spirit than sense. But that’s something I like about you. Unfortunately, Vera is going to bleed out here, and she’s not conscious. You can’t save her even with the ring.”

I nodded. “Another problem I’ll solve after I’m done with you.” I took a step forward tentatively, then another. I was unarmed, but I led with my right hand. It was tingling from using the gauntlet as much as I had, but I still had a fair bit of mana left.

“Not every problem is solvable with the tools you have on hand.” Jin stepped closer, almost in knife reach. We began to circle each other.

“Then,” I replied, “I’ll make more tools.”

I pointed my hand at him and fired. Jin dodged to the side, just as I’dexpected, and attempted a shallow jab. I deflected it with the gauntlet.

We circled each other further. My legs trembled with the effort, moments from failing.

He must have seen the weakness. He stepped forward and tried to trip me. I let him.

Staying standing had never been a viable part of the plan. Not with the condition I was in.

Instead, when he stepped in, so did I. I grabbed his arms and dragged him right down onto the floor with me.

We hit the ground hard.

Unfortunately, he was on top. Fortunately, I still had a good grip on his arms, and they were half-way pinned beneath me.

He started maneuvering immediately, trying to get his knife into a striking position.

I slammed my forehead into his already injured nose.

Jin recoiled, but his shroud stopped most of the damage, and I was dazed.

He pulled his arms free of my weakened grasp and jammed his dagger into my left arm. I screamed, flailing my right arm free, and tried to reach for something vulnerable. We were pressed too close together for me to hit his face.

But that wasn’t what I was aiming for.

I grabbed the phoenix sigil pinned to his chest, felt the mana inside — still almost full — and took a deep breath.

And then I flooded the sigil with mana far, far too fast.

Jin tried to pull away, but I had a good grip, and he was far too late.

The sigil exploded in my hand. Metal shrapnel and mana lanced out in both directions — into my gloved hand and into Jin’s chest.

The feeling of metal splinters in my hand was a new kind of pain. One that even the ring couldn’t banish immediately.

But as Jin fell backward, I knew it had hit him a lot harder. The sigil was too close to his skin for his shroud to do anything to protect him, and his tunic didn’t provide nearly as much protection as a thick leather gauntlet did.

He’d had the pin over his right breast. I’d hoped that wasn’t close enough to pierce his heart.

Jin screamed as he fell off of me, clutching at his chest.

I shivered on the ground, in too much pain to do much of anything.

Neither of us noticed Vanniv, still bleeding profusely from the gash across his entire chest, one wing entirely missing and half of his body still enshrouded in ice, until he lifted Jin with a single stone hand and punched him in the face.

Jin fell unconscious to the ground.

Vanniv looked down at me, shook his head, and pulled the dagger out of my arm. “No mana left. Been like holding my breath just to keep myself here this long. It’s up to you now.”

And with that, Vanniv vanished.

I was too preoccupied with pain to do anything for several moments.

The ring continued to work, but it was clearly overtaxed. It wasn’t doing a thing for the knife wound and very little for the shrapnel.

My first action was to try to dig as much of the shrapnel out of my hand as I could. With that done, those wounds sealed quickly.

I was pretty sure I still had some metal fragments in my skin, but I couldn’t reach them all with the glove on, and I was running out of time.

With my strength failing, I limped toward Vera’s fallen body, and I opened my pouch.

She was unconscious and bleeding bad.

And as Jin had claimed, my ring couldn’t help her. Not in that state. I emptied out my bags. First the one on my waist, then my backpack. And from there, I got to work.

I started with the rock.

Then, with my etching tool, I carved nearly identical runes to the ones that had been found in the ring, but I omitted the trigger rune. The one that required the user to send a bit of mana into it to turn the device on.

I replaced it with a different trigger rune. One from the bell, which caused it to activate when someone shook it if sufficient gray mana was inside.

The “ringing” part wasn’t relevant. It was just detecting movement.

I had the ability to power most of the runes myself. The mental runes to detect her condition and find her injuries, the gray mana necessary to activate it, and the transference mana necessary to push all my mana into those runes.

I didn’t have the most critical type: life mana to cause the actual healing. But I did have three beautiful Class 3 life gems from a trio of slimes.

It was experimental. I’d never seen a healing item that activated when shook. I didn’t know if it would work, and if it did, I knew there was a chance that triggering it would detect me as the injured party if I just shook it overher.

So, with the utmost care, I charged all of the runes, set the now-enchantedrock on top of Vera’s back, and shook her body.

I turned on my attunement. It was working.

Golden life energy was flowing from the rock into her back, and then across it, finding the bullet wounds. I didn’t know if it would expel the bullets, but if nothing else, it seemed to be repairing some of the damage.

I didn’t have the medical expertise to know if it would have been wise to try to dig in for the bullets with some kind of implement, so I didn’t try.

I still had every confidence the situation could get worse at any time.

And so, the next thing I did was pick up the Jaden Box and my flask of endless water.

With them in hand, I pushed my way over to the closest bloodstain I could find. I drizzled water onto the blood and then used my hand to sweep as much of the mix as I could into the box.

I closed the lid of the box. “Summon Katashi.” Nothing happened.

So, I swept the liquid out, found another spot, and swept that in. Closing my eyes, I tried again.

“Summon Katashi.”

A felt an overwhelming burst of pressure and fell to my knees.

When I opened my eyes, Katashi was floating above me. He turned his gaze downward, his eyes narrowing as he assessed my condition.

“Corin Cadence. You would be wise to speak your reason for this insolence.”

I pointed a hand toward Vera’s fallen body. “I brought Vera here like you asked, but she’s badly hurt and I don’t know if my item will be enough to save her.”

Katashi looked at Vera, then back to me. “How did this come to be?”

“Ah, yeah, you’re not going to like that. You were absolutely right. There were people in the government working to keep both Vera and Tenjin’s locations concealed. One of them was Professor Orden,” I pointed at her body. “She acted like she was helping us, then stabbed us in the back half way through. As you can see, we barely survived the confrontation.”

Katashi nodded his head. “Then, given the circumstances, I will forgive your insolence in summoning me — though I am curious as to how you managed such a feat. You are no Summoner, and even if you were, my mark on your hand should not have been a sufficient bond.”

I opened my mouth to speak, but his eyes turned to the box in my handsand he spoke again. “The Jaden Box. I had thought it lost forever. We will speak of this more when I have assured that Vera will survive.”

“If it isn’t too much to ask, can you please heal my companions as well? Sera and Derek at least. They meant no harm. And Jin, well,” I turned my head in his direction.

Jin was gone.

I turned on my attunement immediately, searching for him. If he was invisible, I could probably catch a hint of his aura.

But no, he was completely gone. And so was the return bell.

I’d never sealed this room against teleportation. And I’d made him an item that dampened sound.

I grit my teeth. “Never mind Jin. Can you please help Sera and Derek as well?”

“Any who were harmed in the service of the task that I gave to you will be healed.” Katashi pronounced.

He floated over to Vera first, landing and kneeling down.

He stared at my rock for a minute curiously, reached down, then seemed to change his mind and left it there.

Even gods can’t comprehend my enchanting skills.

I laughed in spite of myself, feeling a fresh surge of pain. Katashi, fortunately, ignored my outburst.

He pressed his hands against Vera’s back. A surge of blue energy enveloped her. I watched as bullets appeared in the air above her. He’d teleported them out. In another moment, they fell, and he continued to pour mana into her.

Vera stirred, not waking, but her breathing seemed to ease.

Katashi rose and floated to Derek next. It wouldn’t have been my choice, but I didn’t complain.

He knelt and put a hand on Derek’s shoulder.

“This one does not require my help. He is simply fatigued and frostbitten.

He is strong. He will recover on his own.” I nodded.

Katashi landed next to Sera, putting a hand on her back. And he frowned.

“This... She has been deeply scarred from the overuse of mana.” Katashi turned his head toward me, shaking it slightly.

“I can treat her pain and save her life, but I cannot heal her entirely. Perhaps my sister could, but this is beyond my abilities. I will do what I can.” A blue glow washed over Sera. She sighed, seeming to relax, but I wincedat Katashi’s words.

He turned toward me. “It is not often that I am incapable of granting a request to one who has done me a service, but her wounds are deep. She may never speak properly again. When this is concluded, I will see to it that she receives recompense for her sacrifice.”

I considered his words. “You mentioned a sister that might be able to help.

Can you tell me which one you spoke of?”

The visage nodded. “If it is healing for your sister you seek, Ferras may be able to aid you.”

I nodded. Ferras was the Visage of Creation. It made sense that she would be even more potent as a healer than other visages. “Thank you, Visage.”

The visage stood up to his full height, looming over me once again. “You have completed your duty in bringing Vera to me, but my brother remains missing. You claim that this Orden was involved in keeping him from me; I will now find the truth of your words.”

Katashi floated over to where Orden had fallen. This time, he did not kneel to treat her wounds.

He raised a hand — and she floated, suspended in the air, still unconscious.

Katashi placed a hand on her forehead and his eyes narrowed. “Your memories to mine.”

A crackling mana surrounded them both as my eyes widened at the implications of what he was doing.

Katashi pulled his hand back.

Orden crumpled unceremoniously back onto the stairs.

He turned his head to me. “It is true. She betrayed my brother and lured him into a trap. But she is not the only guilty one. Vera, too, must be judged for her involvement.”

That sounded pretty rough.

Looking at Orden’s fallen body, I wasn’t even sure if she was alive.

I stepped closer to Katashi, looking up. “Go easy on Vera, please. She came here willingly and she fought hard to meet with you.”

Katashi lowered his gaze to meet mine. “I will take your suggestion into consideration.”

I winced at his tone. “Thank you.” And then I got out of his way.

He appeared next to Vera, kneeling down and putting his hand on her head. “Your memories to mine.”

Vera shivered on the ground, but I watched carefully and she was continuing to breathe.

I didn’t know what I would have done if she had stopped breathing, but I had a feeling it would have been something unwise.

Katashi turned to me, standing up straight and floating back up a few inches. “Vera is not directly responsible for my brother’s disappearance. She was a piece moved by another hand. She still will answer for her role, but I will spare her life.”

“I... I appreciate your mercy, Visage.”

Katashi vanished and reappeared directly in front of me, looming over me. The pressure from his aura forced me down to my knees. “There is another question to be settled, however.”

He put a hand against my forehead. “Tell me honestly, Corin Cadence.

Were you involved in my brother’s disappearance in any way?”

I froze at his touch. “Not that I am aware of, Visage. Though it would seem I may have been manipulated in the aftermath.”

“Yes,” he replied. “I sense the truth of your words. There is no question of your innocence. It would seem that you were unaware of your brother’s actions.”

I trembled as he withdrew his hands. “My...brother?”

“In Lyras Orden’s memories, I have discovered her fellow conspirators.

Among them is one of your House — Tristan Cadence.” Tristan was alive.

I took a moment to process that. Tristan was alive.

And he’d been working with Orden.

I’d often been accused of talking too much, but in that moment I had no idea what to say.

“I...can honestly say, Visage, that I had no idea that Tristan Cadence was even alive. I had hoped that he was, but not like this.”

“I will be forced to seek your brother for further Judgment. Your cooperation will not reflect on his punishment.”

I didn’t know what to say to that. I just stood there and shook. “Remove your glove.”

I numbly followed his instructions, wincing at the muted pain from the remaining shards in my hand.

He took my hand, sending a surge of mana into it. “I, Katashi, Visage of Selys, Judge that you have fulfilled your obligation to me. Let this mark become one of Glory, no longer of Judgment.”

The mark on my hand shifted — both in visible shape, and I could sense, of the type and quantity of mana within.

In fact, I was reasonably confident he’d just given me a new attunement. I couldn’t bring myself to care.

“With what I have learned, I must shut the tower. Vera and Lyras Orden will remain here. I will send you and your other companions away from here.”

I nodded without replying. My mind was swimming. Tristan.

Was. Working. With.

Orden.

How was that possible? Had he never failed the test? Had he just decided not to come home?My hands clenched and unclenched. I had so many questions. “Gather your things and go stand with your sister.”

I quickly complied, sheathing both of my swords and gathering everything I could in my bags, including the Jaden Box. If he wasn’t going to complain about me keeping it, I was keeping it.

I took the rock of regeneration, too. With Katashi’s healing, Vera’s wounds had completely closed. She didn’t need it. Sera and I, on the other hand, were both still in terrible shape. And I knew regeneration had a better chance of healing permanent and near-permanent injuries than instant healing did.

Katashi waved a hand. Derek’s body levitated and settled next to the two of us.

“Before we go... Will we be safe? Orden implied that we were opposing highly placed people in our government.”

Katashi nodded. “A valid concern. I will send you to someone powerful enough to protect you. Tell him that this is what he owes me. He will understand what I mean.”

I nodded.

“Thank you. And, one last thing. You said you would give my sister a boon for helping you, since you couldn’t heal her?”

Katashi floated over to us. I took a step back as he drew his sword of blue crystal.

He flipped it around, holding it by the blade and extending it toward me. “This is Ceris, the Song of Harmony, forged from the heart of a long-broken world. It has served me for many centuries as a tool of Protection and Judgment. It will now sing for Sera Cadence — so long as her mortal heart continues to beat. After that, it will return to me, as it always has.”

...the visage was giving Sera his sword.

Patrick was going to turn into some kind of jealousy elemental when he found out about this.

I knelt and accepted the sword with reverence. “Thank you, Visage. I am confident she will be pleased by this generous gift.”

Katashi gave me a curt nod. “This is as it should be. Now, you must go.” “Thank you, Visage.”

Katashi waved his hand in a cutting motion — and my surroundings changed.

***We appeared next to a campfire.

Sera and Derek were still unconscious, so they just sort of flopped on the ground.

I was still kneeling with Katashi’s sword held awkwardly outward.

This was probably somewhat alarming to the lone figure who had been sitting on the forest floor, eating a chicken leg.

For that reason, I probably shouldn’t have been surprised when he was on his feet in an instant, and suddenly he was armed and I wasn’t.

Ceris landed blade-first in a nearby tree.

And Keras Selyran stood over me, a glimmering silver blade in his hands.

Given the speed with which he moved, I was unclear on whether or not he’d just disarmed me with his sword or with the chicken leg.

His eyes narrowed. I froze.

He tilted his head to the side. “Wait, aren’t you Corin Cadence?” I nodded. “Yes?”

And then he laughed, his sword disappearing back into the scabbard at his side. “Oh, Corin. Sorry, I didn’t recognize you immediately. Don’t sneak up on me like that. What are you doing here?”

I let out a sigh.

“That is, I’m afraid, something of a long story.”

EPILOGUE — CADENCEI told Keras a long story.

Specifically, I told him almost everything that had happened in the last several months.

I didn’t mention anything about the memory crystal I’d watched with him fighting against the Council of Lords. I did not want him to know that my mother was one of the people he’d been fighting.

If Katashi was assigning Keras to watch over me, I wanted to make sure I kept him on my good side. I had no idea how he’d react to the news that she’d been one of the ones attempting to arrest him, but I couldn’t imagine it would be a positive response.

If I survived long enough, I’d have to get a letter to my mother to explain what I knew about the situation. Talking to her in-person would be even better if I could arrange it. We had a lot to discuss.

Keras rubbed his forehead in the aftermath of hearing my tale. Without the mask, he was a surprisingly normal-looking guy. “Sounds like you’ve had a rough few weeks. Uh, want something to eat?”

“You know what? Yeah, I could eat.”

Sera and Derek were both still unconscious. I’d put the rock of regeneration on Sera’s stomach and activated it before getting into my story, and I could tell it was still working on her, but I didn’t know if it would be sufficient to help her lungs.

Keras offered me bread, cheese, and chicken, which I accepted gratefully.

We ate in quiet for a while. He seemed content to focus on the food.

After finishing my meal, I shook my head and tried to focus. “So, where are we?”

“We’re near the Edrian border. I’ve been out here for weeks, patrolling for anyone or anything particularly dangerous trying to slip through.” Kerasshook his head. “Was doing it as a favor for Katashi. I’m glad you showed up, since it sounds like I’ve been wasting my time.”

I nodded. “Yeah... Unless Jin happens to come by this direction.”

Keras shook his head. “Not likely. From what you told me, he didn’t do anything that’s likely to set off alarms for the local government. You’re one of the only ones who walked out of that room with any information on what he did. He might have just gone back to the school. No one else would know the difference.”

I felt a cutting pain in my chest when I thought about Jin. My fists clenched.

I’d almost killed him. Jin, who’d exaggerated his mysteriousness to fit in.

Jin, who’d worn a disguise to steal for me, then asked me to a ball.

He’d probably saved my life at least once, too. Had I been right to stand in his way?I’d saved Vera, sure, but what would the consequences be for Jin?And what about on a broader level? How was Katashi going to react when he discovered what Orden and Vera had been up to?I’d been trying to avert a crisis, but the long-term results of my actions were impossible to know.

I tried to dismiss that line of thought and focus on the conversation. “Even with Orden and Vera in Katashi’s custody, Orden’s compatriots are still going to be doing those experiments. Jin might head back home to report.”

“If he did, he wouldn’t go through the wilderness in the middle of nowhere. I’m only here because this is a remote location that I’d tracked some Edrian troops to. Jin doesn’t have any reason not to just take a train if he wants to go home.”

I didn’t think there was a train that went all the way into East Edria, but Keras had a point.

I took a breath. Then another. I took a moment — just one — and used it to breathe. For the first time in years, I felt lost.

Not just because of Jin. I still didn’t know what I’d do if I saw him again, but that wasn’t even my biggest concern.

Tristan was alive, and he’d been working with Orden. Could Katashi have been wrong?I doubted it. He’d taken that knowledge directly from Orden’s mind. Maybe I should have asked more questions, but I was just too shocked.

I turned to Keras, exhausted and fighting a wave of helplessness that tried to wash over me. “What do I do?”

The swordsman shrugged. “You push forward. You’ve had a rough time, sure, but you can’t let it break you. You’ve got some loyal friends. There’s nosubstitute for that. Sounds like you’ve still got a couple of them back at the school that are probably worried about you. We should meet up with them and fill them in.”

I nodded at that. “You don’t have to stay here?”

“Not one minute longer than I have to. I was here because Katashi had suspicions about Edrian manipulation in all this. I’m here on his behalf. If I’m supposed to be guarding you now, that’s a new and frankly far more entertaining way to spend my time.”

“Wait. So you’ve been working for Katashi this whole time?Keras shook his head. “Oh, no, nothing like that. You remember that time I was fighting him in the tower?”

“No, clearly I’d forget about something like that.” I rolled my eyes.

Keras laughed. “Yeah, that was a good scrap. Been a while since I’ve had one of those. Anyway, after I frustrated him by not dying for a while, I talked him into a truce. Showed him I wasn’t involved in his brother disappearing and all that. He was still angry at me for helping Vera and Echion escape, so I agreed to do him a few favors. In exchange, he’d give me what I’d come to the tower for in the first place when I finished.”

He just called a fight with a visage a ‘good scrap’. I didn’t know if he was bragging or just some kind of foreign god. Possibly both. “What were you there for?”

“Wanted to meet your goddesss. We’ve got some business to discuss. I think Katashi is still going to make me climb the spires, but hopefully if I get this done he’ll at least write me a letter of introduction or something.”

“Spires? Plural?”

Keras nodded. “Pretty sure I need to climb all of them if I want to meet her. Seems a little excessive to me, but at least they’re good exercise. And I like the variety of monsters.”

I...didn’t even know what to say to that, so I changed the subject. “I heard that someone from Dalenos was trying to arrest you. Did you get that cleared up?”

The swordsman winced. “Yeah, Katashi called them off a few weeks ago. I believe they’ve informed the local government as well, but we’ll keep our heads down just in case.”

That would probably make dealing with my mother somewhat easier, but I decided I’d still try to keep them apart if possible. Assuming she was still on business in Dalenos that would probably be simple enough.

I did my best to smile. “Glad to hear you got that cleared up. So, when can we head out?”

“First thing in the morning. Your friends aren’t in any condition to move,and it’s a good five miles to the train station.”

I was not looking forward to that walk. Even now, my legs were barely functional. “Uh, right. You wouldn’t happen to have extra sleeping gear?”

“Oh, you cold? I’ve got a bedroll and a blanket you can use. No tent, sorry. I usually go without.”

I nodded, glancing at my unconscious companions.

Keras must have noticed my concern. “I wouldn’t worry about them. Your cloak should keep Sera very comfortable. As for the other guy? If he’s really a Hartigan, he’ll be fine.”

“You know House Hartigan?” I turned my head back to Keras in surprise. “Thought you were a foreigner.”

“Oh, I know House Hartigan quite well. Friend of mine learned quite a bit from Blake Hartigan, in fact. They’re pretty prominent where I come from, too.”

“Huh.” I’d always been under the impression that most of our noble houses had come across from the mainland in their entirety during some sort of cataclysmic event, but maybe that wasn’t accurate. “Fair enough. Well, good night, then?”

Keras gave me a smile that seemed very... genuine. Friendly, even. “Don’t worry about anything. I’ll keep watch over the camp. You’re safe.”

Safe.

After the last day, I had a hard time believing that, but I decided to do my best to pretend.

***I must have fallen asleep at some point, because I woke up abruptly to the sound of clashing steel.

It took me a moment to orient myself. I found Derek and Keras staring each other down, blades crossed.

I stammered out words. “Woah, both of you, please calm down.” Derek’s gaze flicked to me. “This man is a wanted criminal.”

Keras grunted. “I’m cleared of all charges, actually. I’d be glad to explain if you’d lower your weapon.”

“Not going to do that until I’m convinced we’re safe. Corin, what happened?”

I sat up. “It’s safe, Derek. Katashi sent us to Keras. We’re all on the same side.”

Well, more or less. But I’m not going to complicate things further by bringing up the political complexities of our situation.

Derek’s eyes narrowed. “You’re absolutely certain of this?”

“Yes, Derek. Believe me, if Keras wanted us dead, he could have easilykilled us by now.”

“I wouldn’t be so sure of that.” Derek took a step back, sheathing his weapon. “But if Katashi sent us here, I suppose it’s probably safe.”

Keras sheathed his own weapon. “I appreciate that you’re willing to listen to reason.” He reached out with his hand. “And you’re quick with those blades. I wouldn’t mind testing your skills at some point under friendlier terms.”

Derek hesitated for just a moment before accepting the gesture, grabbing Keras wrist. “I’ll look forward to it.”

With that resolved, I went back to sleep.

***The walk to the train station was grueling, but not as bad as I’d expected. The ring had done wonders for my injuries overnight. I was still limping, and I had to stop frequently due to tremors in my right leg, but I felt mostly functional.

I’d kept the rock with Sera overnight, hoping it might do a bit to repair the damage to her lungs, but I knew it wasn’t likely.

Keras used some kind of magnetism magic to pull the remaining metal shards out of my right hand. It was painful for a few moments, but the ring worked quickly to repair the damage.

Sera and Derek were both up and seemingly in good health, for the most part.

Derek had a killer headache. I offered to loan him the ring for a few minutes to get rid of it. He just looked at me like I was a madman. Given his last experience with magic rings, yeah, maybe that wasn’t such a good suggestion. So, he just contented himself to complain a little bit here and there.

Sera was in the worst shape. She kept trying to talk, but not a sound issued from her lips. Occasionally, she’d still break into fits of coughing, and we had to stop on two occasions when she had trouble catching her breath.

When I went to measure the mana in her attunement, Derek and Keras both got a look at her mark.

“Never seen anything like it,” Derek offered. “It’s not a standard attunement.”

Keras leaned a little closer. “Huh. Haven’t seen many Dominion Marks with that degree of complexity around here.”

I stared at him. “Do you know what it does?”

He shook his head. “Sorry, don’t recognize that one. I know some people who might, but they’re not here.” He frowned. “Unless Wrynn is. She’d probably know.”

“Wrynn?” I asked.

“Wrynn Jaden, the one who made your box. If she’s still around here, we could try to track her down. I’m a little worried about her, truth be told. It’s not like her to leave her box behind anywhere, for any reason. When that thing recharges in a few months, we might want to try to summon her with it.”

I nodded absently. Jaden was supposedly hundreds of years dead, but considering who the suggestion was coming from, I decided he probably knew what he was talking about.

I liked the idea of meeting Wrynn Jaden eventually, but for the moment, I had other plans for the box.

I pressed the mana watch against Sera’s attunement. It displayed 0/0.

That was not a good sign at all.

I turned to Keras. “You wouldn’t happen to have any way of fixing mana scarring, would you?”

He shook his head sadly. “Sorry, Corin. I’m not a healer.”

I wasn’t sure how to phrase my follow up question, so I just asked. “I don’t want to be rude, but... what are you? Are you another visage? Or a servant of the Tyrant in Gold?”

Keras just laughed. “I’m neither of those, I assure you. I’ll have to think about the best way to explain. Every time I’ve tried to tell people around here about my abilities it’s ended poorly.”

A fair answer, but I still wanted to know more. I had so many questions.

I turned back to Sera, patting her on the shoulder. “We’ll find a way to get you healed.”

Sera nodded back to me. Her eyes were filled with determination. And, fortunately, she did seem to like the new sword.

***The train ride took about ten hours.

Derek and Keras spent most of that time bantering with each other, and I was pretty sure they went out and had a sparring match on the roof of the train at one point.

Sera and I couldn’t talk to each other, but I felt closer to her than I ever had. We sat next to each other, exchanging notes. Fortunately, Keras had paper and he’d been willing to give it to us for a good cause.

Her first note was particularly endearing.

Corin,Stop thinking about going after Jin.

You have more important things to worry about, like the things that I want.

Also, possibly the friends who didn’t betray us. They’re somewhat important, too.

Sincerely, SeraSigning and addressing it was completely unnecessary, given we were right next to each other, but it was so very Sera that it made me feel better.

She was right, of course.

It was probably better that I didn’t try to find Jin again immediately. The wounds were too fresh for both of us, both metaphorically and literally. There was a reasonable chance he’d want to kill me when we saw each other again, and I couldn’t blame him for it.

But I wasn’t going to blame myself, either. I was going to move forward.

***It took a while to find Marissa and Patrick.

This was because, rather than being in their rooms, they had been waiting outside of the tower for us.

When we hadn’t made it back the first night, they’d camped out together.

Even after all Patrick had done for me over the course of the year, I still didn’t know how to respond to displays of loyalty and concern like that.

It was so good to see them.

They were glad to see me, too, if a little surprised by the company.

Surprised and maybe a little alarmed.

Keras was wearing his mask again now that we were in town. He got some strange looks, but no one approached us to ask about it.

After an aborted attempt to explain everything, Derek pointed out that we should not be discussing everything that had happened in public. He escorted us to one of his homes. It was a small manor only about a mile away. Apparently, it was where he stayed when he was preparing to go on a climbing expedition.

And it was, fortunately, already very-well magically protected. I inspected the runes on the walls on my way in. Some were familiar, like anti-scrying and anti-teleportation, but others were new. I’d have to write them down later. We sat in an opulent living room while Derek and I explained to everyone what we’d encountered. Keras spent most of the time doing some kind ofmeditation exercise with his sword, since he’d already heard it all from me.

When we finished, Patrick was a combination of excited and incredulous.

“So, Professor Orden was the traitor?”

I sighed. “No, Patrick. If you want to get technical, I was probably the closest thing to a traitor. Apparently all this was something our government approved of.”

Derek raised his hands in a halting gesture. “Woah, slow down there, Corin. Orden might have overstated her support a bit there. She might have members of the Council of Lords supporting this little endeavor, but certainly not the whole thing. My mother is on the council and the first she’d heard of this was when I brought it to her attention.”

I frowned. “How’d you find out about all this, anyway?”

He sighed. “Elora. Dear, darling, Elora. She told me all about it after she’d helped abduct Tenjin and the others. She was so excited. Thought I’d just automatically approve of her idea to kidnap our allies and the visage we worship. How could I have possibly disagreed?”

That made sense. He’d mentioned having a falling out with Elora Theas.

I’d assumed it was just some kind of petty lover’s quarrel.

Apparently, it was much more serious than I’d given him credit for. And, to be fair, maybe Derek himself was a little more serious than I’d realized.

I was grateful to have him on my side. If he’d taken Elora’s side in this, it would have been a catastrophe. He’d have stopped us from ever getting Vera to the tower.

“Think this is a bit much for us students to be dealin’ with.” Marissa tapped her fingers on the edge of her chair. “Not to be discountin’ the help of m’lord Hartigan and m’lord — what was it, Selys-something?”

“Selyrian,” Keras corrected. “It just means ‘from near the city of Selyr’.” “Oh, got that. Right, so not to be saying yer not important an all, but ifthey bagged a visage—”

Keras came over and sat down on a couch next to me. “No offense taken. I mean, I could handle fighting the whole government here in a straight fight—”

Derek leaned forward toward Keras. “Do we need to take this to the roof?”

Sera scribbled a note and passed it to me.

I read it and laughed. “Sera would like you to keep it down here. She says she ‘wants to watch’.” I waggled my eyebrows in implication.

Everyone laughed. It was a good sound.

I turned my head. “But, more seriously, Marissa had a good point. We’re going to need more than a handful of people if we all agree we want to do something about this.”

Derek turned his head to me. “Well, if we’re just talking about rescuing Tenjin, we’ll have Katashi’s support. That may come with support from a number of noble families, both locally and in Dalenos. If you’re talking about stopping people from making artificial attuned, that’s much more complex.”

I shook my head. “I’m not worried about that, so much as saving the people that Orden kidnapped and trying to make sure that Orden and her allies didn’t destroy our alliance with Caelford out of greed.”

Derek nodded. “That’s more or less what I’ve been thinking, too. I’m sure this is a lot for all of you to take in. Don’t worry about anything tonight. I’ll take care of making sure we’re safe here.”

Patrick frowned. “Will we be able to go back to class tomorrow?”

I hadn’t even thought about that. It seemed so unimportant compared to everything else going on. It was a valid question, though. We needed to figure out what types of things we were safe to do in general. We needed an overall plan of action on how to proceed.

I was just so tired. I couldn’t think about it in detail. Not yet.

I turned to him. “You and Marissa are probably fine. I don’t think anyone has any idea of your involvement at this point... aside from Professor Teft.”

Derek leaned back in his chair. “I don’t think Teft was on Orden’s side in this. If he was, Orden wouldn’t have bothered taking me with her to the tower. A reliable ally would have been better than bringing me along and trying to control me.”

I folded my arms. “Unless she knew you were aware of the situation and she was planning to get rid of you, too.”

Derek shook his head. “Too much of a risk, even for her. No, if she had another attuned she could have counted on that was of a similar power range to ours, she’d have brought him or her instead.”

I considered that. “Why didn’t she bring Elora, then?”

Derek rubbed his forehead. “Elora’s been missing for a couple weeks. I’m not sure where she went. Might be that she’s the one guarding the prisoners right now. I don’t believe what Orden said about them cooperating for a second.”

I nodded in agreement. “Yeah, unless her idea of cooperation involves more of those control rings. Which it probably does, but I imagine they wouldn’t last forever on their own.”

“She’d probably use self-recharging rings. They could last indefinitely if that’s the case.” Derek sighed. “Can’t believe I let her give me a ring.”

Keras snickered. “I’m sure a lot of people say that at some point in their lives.”

Derek rolled his eyes. “Okay. You don’t get to talk anymore. House rules.”

Keras quirked a brow. “Then how am I supposed to flirt with you for Miss Cadence’s entertainment?”

“Ugh. I’m going upstairs.” Derek pushed himself out of a chair. Keras stood up, too. “Is that an invitation?”

“Ugh, no. Stay here. I insist.”

We laughed again. Keras sat back down, feigning dejection.

I spent much of the rest of the day telling everyone more about what had led up to this point.

We found a Valor board eventually. Sera beat all of us at it, although Keras seemed to be playing toward some kind of goal other than winning that none of the rest of us knew about.

Later, I thought to ask both Keras and Derek about the mark on my right hand. It was an attunement, not a strange one like Sera’s mark, but neither of them recognized it.

Derek offered me some books to read and pointed me to a room where I could study and sleep for the night. He had enough rooms for everyone else to stay there, too. Even Keras decided to stick around.

When I finally retired to my bedroom, I pulled out a book — but not the one that Derek had given me to read. It was Trials of Judgment, the book linked to the Voice of the Tower.

I had some questions for him.

Dear Voice of the Tower,Lyras Orden was responsible for kidnapping Tenjin.

I’m going to presume you already knew about this from the beginning.

I’m also going to assume that you were somehow responsible for how I ended up with the keys necessary to open the prison cells for Vera, Echion, and Keras, thereby distracting Katashi from his pursuit of the real culprit.

I’ve stopped Orden. Katashi has her.

I’d like to give you a chance to explain what you’re really up to before I decide if I need to point people in your direction.

CorinThe note might have come across as a bit more vindictive than I had intended, but I felt pretty significantly betrayed.

There had been a body outside the jail cells where Vera and the others had been imprisoned. House Cornell would be mourning for the loss of a child. Had that death been the Voice’s work, too?The reply came more quickly than I’d intended.

Ah, Corin,I’m so glad you’re beginning to catch on. You’ll make an excellent Whisper of Wydd when we’re done with you.

Was I working with Orden? Oh, yes. And against her as well.

Lyras never had sufficient foresight, you see. Quite intelligent, yes, but lacking in imagination. Once she’d started on her path, she was incapable of sufficiently adapting to changes in circumstances — changes like leaving Vera behind when her mission was interrupted.

There were far better ways of handling that situation. If she truly needed Vera’s knowledge, finding a Diviner and Vera to work with them for the creation of a memory crystal would have been vastly simpler.

Or, you know, she could have just gone to Caelford and found any of the dozens of other people who had worked on the project. I’m certain that Vera had some unique insights, but nothing a dozen other Analysts couldn’t have figured out given time.

But alas, Orden lacked the insight to deviate from her original course. She was my teacher, just as she was yours.

And I surpassed her, just as you did.

And so, when she began to take risks with insufficient returns, I began to strike out on my own path.

You were an integral part of that, and I thank you for it. I will not denigrate you by calling you a tool or pawn — more of a junior partner.

One who I foresee being capable of great things — eventually.

In the meantime, I believe we’re both going to be quite busy in the aftermath of all this. I’m very excited to see what happens next.

And I’ll be especially interested in seeing your next move, little brother. Survive, and you’ll soon see mine.

-Tristan CadenceTHE ENDAPPENDIX I — ATTUNEMENTS OF VALIAAn Excerpt from Understanding Attunements by Amir HartiganEach of the Shifting Spires marks the domain of one of the six Visages of Selys, the goddess above us all. Within these towers, she chooses to grant attunements to those who prove themselves worthy through a Judgment.

It is known that each tower has eight corresponding attunements. Our great kingdom of Valia is home to the Serpent Spire, wherein the eight attunements of Tenjin can be found.

Diviner: Diviners focus on information gathering magic, such as detecting mana types, identifying magical objects, and finding people from a distance.

Mana Types: Mental (Primary), Enhancement (Secondary)Guardian: Guardians are capable of focusing mana into specific parts of their bodies, imparting vastly enhanced physical combat capabilities. Also capable of discharging their mana through contact, enabling them to harm creatures impervious to conventional force.

Mana Types: Enhancement (Primary), Life (Secondary)Elementalist: Elementalists conjure fire, air, and lightning to strike their foes from afar. Often considered the most potent offensive spellcasting attunement, though lacking in versatility.

Mana Types: Fire (Primary), Air (Secondary)Enchanter: Enchanters are capable of imbuing objects with mana, either from themselves or by transferring it from other items. This allows them to create magical items.

Mana Types: Transference (Primary), Mental (Secondary)Mender: Menders are capable of applying their mana towardregenerating tissue and accelerating recovery. They are, however, also capable of reversing this process — making Menders into terrifying short-ranged combatants.

Mana Types: Life (Primary), Earth (Secondary)Shadow: Shadows are capable of concealing themselves from the senses and diminishing the senses of others. For this reason, they are often used as spies and assassins.

Mana Types: Umbral (Primary), Enhancement (Secondary)Shaper: Shapers can conjure objects from solid mana and restructure existing mana fields, making them among the most flexible of all attuned.

Mana Types: Earth (Primary), Enhancement (Secondary)Summoner: Summoners form pacts with monsterous entities and learn to call upon their power. Powerful Summoners are capable of conjuring “figments”— mana constructed duplicates of creatures with which they have formed a pact.

Mana Types: Air (Primary), Transference (Secondary)APPENDIX II — ATTUNEMENT LEVELSOne of the many lectures of Lars Mantrake, retired climber, to a customerAs a climber, people often ask me ‘bout the strongest folks I’ve run into long the years. Most are surprised to hear I don’t got the slightest — I ain’t no Diviner or ‘Chanter. Can’t see no auras. And even if I could?Most of the scariest bastards know how to hide ‘em.

I can tell you this, though — everyone who gets to a certain point starts to pick up new tricks. Varies from attunement to attunement, but there’s a logic to it.

Sounds a little like this:Quartz is where people get their start. Ain’t nothing special here — got a couple types of mana you can play with, depending on what attunement you’ve got. Ain’t got no business climbing the tower if you’re a Quartz.

Carnelian is when I might start to take you a bit serious. When you’re a Carnelian, you start to develop a shroud. That’s a nice way to say that you’re starting to leak mana — and that’s why them Diviners and such can see it. Shroud’s your best friend — saved me more times than I can count. Works like a shield that’s always there, so long as you’ve got mana in you.

Guardians can do all sorts of crazy stuff with shrouds — it’s their specialty. They start building them even sooner than the rest of us, all the way back at Quartz.

Sunstone. Most climbers end up here. It’s when you’ve got a solid, reliable shroud to keep you safe. Sunstones learn all sorts of tricks for controlling their shroud — the most common be to turn the thing off. Or, at least suppress it so much that Diviners and such can’t see much of it.

Citrines are dangerous folk. Not many of them out there, and they’re almost all veterans with a lot of tricks up their sleeves. More importantly? When people hit Citrine, their attunement changes somehow. More than justgetting an extra line and a brighter glow. Citrines start getting another type of mana — almost like they’ve got a whole new attunement. And that added flexibility makes them killer in a fight.

Emeralds are so rare that I can’t tell you what they’re capable of. Stories are all over the place, but the most common says that they can shape raw mana in the air. Not talking about reshaping spells that are already flying about like a Shaper can — they say Emeralds can weave magic out of nothing but ambient power.

Sounds like a bunch of nonsense if you ask me.

Sapphires? Hah! Good luck finding one of those, kid. You’re more likely to find a spell that turns lead into gold.

APPENDIX III — MARK LOCATIONSAn excerpt from a lecture on general magic theory by Professor MeltlakeStudents these days have no appreciation for the little things.

And one of these little things, with far greater significance than they understand?The place in which they were first marked by the goddess.

We understand little about why the goddess chooses to mark an individual in a certain location — even less than we understand her reasoning about which attunement to pick for one of the Judged.

We do, however, know how the location affects the abilities of the attuned who bears the mark.

The principal effect of the location is that it determines the primary method the attuned uses to direct spells. While all attuned can direct spells through multiple methods, spells that are directed using the attunement itself as a medium will be more potent.

Hand-Marked Attuned generally direct their spells through a gesture with the marked hand.

The classic example is an Elementalist hurling a blast of fire through their attuned hand — this would be stronger than doing the exact same spell through their other hand, since the attunement itself provides extra power when the caster channels mana directly through it.

Leg-Marked Attuned trigger spells by channeling their mana directly through touching a target. While kicking a target might be the most applicable method, a leg-marked attuned can also channel mana through their attunement into another part of the body and deliver it through a touch. This method is matched with hand-marked gestures for speed, and has the advantage of accuracy — spells delivered directly into a target are almost never wasted.

Since this method can only be used in melee range, however, it is oftenpracticed in conjunction with other types of casting — unless the attunement itself favors close combat. This method is often favored by Guardians, even if their Attunement mark is elsewhere on their bodies.

Lung-Marked Attuned typically target and cast their spells through verbal incantations. By speaking, the caster channels mana through their lungs into the air around them, then releases the mana upon the conclusion of the incantation. This method is more time consuming than most spell casting methods, but the voice allows mana to be dispersed across a broad area, making this method superior for affecting multiple targets at once. For this reason, lung-marked are popular for warfare, where they can wreak havoc across a battlefield.

Heart-Marked Attuned channel mana through their entire body into their heart and then out both hands simultaneously. This method is the most dangerous and difficult to control, but it also produces the strongest single- target spells.

Mind-Marked Attuned are capable of casting spells inside their own bodies without any form of motion or verbal incantation. This skill makes mind-marked Menders incredibly resilient, since they’re capable of healing their wounds simply by shifting their mana to the injured location. Other mind-marked attuned often focus on casting spells that enhance their senses or physical attributes.

The location of an attunement is also quite important in that the attunement increases the rate of mana regeneration for that part of the body. Depending on the location of the mark, this will give the attuned more access to a particular type of mana.

This is often key in developing the user’s strength as a mage, since their most commonly used mana type will generally also be their strongest.

APPENDIX IV — CHARACTERS AND TERMSFrom Corin’s class notesHouse Cadence:Magnus Cadence — Head of House Cadence, father of Tristan and Corin CadenceLaura Lyran — Head of House Lyran, mother of Tristan and Corin CadenceTristan Cadence — Elder son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Disappeared into the Serpent Spire during his Judgment. Presumed deceased.

Corin Cadence — Younger son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Presumptive heir to both houses after Tristan’s disappearance.

Sera Cadence — Previously known as Sera Shard, Sera Cadence was legitimized by Magnus Cadence after passing her attunement exam. She is presumed to be a bastard child of Magnus Cadence. After being legitimized, she is now a potential heir to the house. She is the same age as Corin.

University Staff:Chancellor Wallace — In charge of all university activities.

Lieutenant Commander Jack Bennet — Vice Chancellor, former military commander.

Professors:Professor Edlyn — Assisted with new student orientation.

Teaches Mana Manipulation class.

Professor Ceridan — In charge of Tiger Division. Teaches Elementalists.

Professor Lyras Orden — In charge of Serpent Division. Has a mysterious connection with The Voice of the Tower.

Professor Vellum — Teaches classes on permanentenchantments.

Professor Conway — Teaches Attunements class.

Lord Jonathan Teft — In charge of Hydra Division. Teachesdueling.

Professor Meltlake — General Magic Theory class. LegendaryElementalist.

Professor Vanway — Teacher for an unknown class. Not one of Corin’s professors.

Students:Patrick Wayland — Former friend from Corin’s childhood.

Elementalist.

Jin Dalen — Mysterious student in Corin’s dorm.

Marissa Callahan — One of Corin’s classmates. Usually called “Mara” by her friends. Guardian.

Roland Royce — One of Sera’s friends, former friend ofTristan’s.

Cecily Lambert — Student Corin is deliberately avoiding forunknown reasons.

Curtis Maddock — Dorm chief for Corin’s dorm.

Lisa Stone — Former classmate from Corin’s childhood.

Other People:Lars Mantrake — Shopkeeper for the Climber’s Court, amagic item shop. Former climber.

Keras Selyrian — Mysterious swordsman that Corin first encounters during his Judgment.

Echion — Child with an unusual mark across his forehead.

Corin first meets Echion during his Judgment.

Vera Corrington — Tower explorer that Corin first encounters during his Judgment.

Aloras Corrington — Automotive engineer. Vera’s brother.

Derek Hartigan — Heir to House Hartigan, an ancient noble house. Extremely powerful attuned.

Tavare — Derek’s summoned blade elemental.

Delsys — Derek’s summoned flame/wind elemental.

Elora Theas — Heir to House Theas, an ancient noble house.

Extremely powerful attuned.

Vanniv — A summoned karvensi.

Visages:Katashi — Visage of Valor, patron Visage of Dalenos, wherehe is a central figure in their government.

Melkyr — Visage of Resilience, patron Visage of Edria. Ferras — Visage of Creation, patron Visage of Caelford. Tenjin — Visage of Inspiration, patron Visage of Valia. Kerivas — Visage of Law, second patron Visage of Edria. Wydd — Visage of Forbidden Knowledge. Location unknown.

Often depicted as a trickster or shapeshifter.

God Beasts:Genbu, the God Tortoise — God Beast of Dalenos.

Seiryu, the God Serpent — God Beast of Valia.

Orochi, the God Hydra - God Beast of Edria. Byakko, the God Tiger - God Beast of Caelford. Suzaku, the God Phoenix — God Beast of East Edria. Arachne, the God Spider — God Beast of (????)God Beast Children:Mizuchi — Deadly serpent, called “Hero’s End”. Child ofSeiryu.

Major Nations:Valia — Nation on the eastern coast of the continent ofKaldwyn. Home to the Serpent Spire and the Lorian Heights Academy.

Edria — Imperialistic southern nation. Conquered Kelridge during the Six Years War and nearly conquered Valia as well.

Caelford — Technologically advanced nation on the western coast of the continent. Allied with Valia.

Dalenos — Theocracy; covers most of the northern side of thecontinent.

Kelridge — A territory that was a part of Dalenos prior to theSix Years War. Conquered by Edria and now known as East Edria.

Days of the Week:TashdayKyrsday Fersday Tensday Vasday WyddsayACKNOWLEDGEMENTSCorin Cadence owes his existence to the “Cobalt Nightmares” role- playing game campaign by Bernard Hansel, Justin Green, Danielle Collins, and numerous other game masters and staff. While the Corin in this novel differs significantly from the character in that game world, playing “CorwinPage” is what gave me the first hints of inspiration for this book.

Similarly, Sera Shard/Sera Cadence was inspired by her analogue in Cobalt Nightmares, played by Jess Richards.

As always, my beta readers were essential in improving the quality of this manuscript. They included Sean Anderson, Chris Avellone, Danielle Collins,Gereon Hinz, Josh Kutterer, Jess Richards, Christine L. Rowe, Jay Taylor, Will Wight, and Jennifer Williamson.

Thank you to Tim Marquitz for the some amazing editing assistance with the book. I truly appreciate your help and advice.

Daniel Kamarudin has been my cover artist since my first book — and he’s only gotten better over time. I was thrilled to work with him again on thisproject. Thanks for the help, Daniel.

Much of my inspiration for this work came from web serials such asMother of Learning by nobody103, Worm by Wildbow, and Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality by Eliezer Yudkowsky.

Another layer of my inspiration came from JRPGs such as Final Fantasy, Tower of Druaga, Azure Dreams, Lufia 2: Rise of the Sinistrals, Ys, the SaGa series, Seiken Densetsu, and Bravely Default. In specific, the massive towers owe much of their existence to the earlier JRPGs on the list, and the idea ofbuilding a magic system around character classes was largely inspired by Bravely Default. While many earlier JRPGs had “job class” systems, Bravely Default worked character classes into their story — and that’s something I wanted to expand on further.

The title of this book is a reference to Arthur C. Clarke’s Third Law: “Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.” Ideliberately inverted this as an homage, as well as to represent the theme of exploring magical research within the story.

Finally, thanks to the community over on Reddit’s /r/fantasy, especially asuraemulator, Green0Photon, Jadeyard, and the other users that took the timeto give me feedback on my earlier works.

If you enjoyed the RPG-like elements of this novel, you might also be interested in checking out the swiftly-growing LitRPG genre of books. Some of the early supporters for this novel came from the LitRPG community onFacebook, which can be found at