CHAPTER VII – SPECIAL DELIVERY

After Mara accepted her sigil, I left the cabin and let her try it on. She reported back later that it seemed to be working.

I’d set up her Null-Contract Sigil for spirit mana, just like my own. This was both because it was the easiest option, since I just had to directly copy how mine functioned, and because it would help get her started on processing spirit mana in her body. Even if we failed to find another spirit mana source, like a crystal mark or an attunement, I knew I could theoretically build up more spirit mana for her by gradually upgrading the sigil — but that was more of a fallback plan.

She’d already learned the same Regeneration spells I had, so I theoretically could have taught her what I’d figured out for a spirit-based version, but the contract didn’t provide her with enough spirit mana to use it safely. With only a pool of ten spirit mana to start with, I got her started with a basic “Spirit Sight” spell that was similar to Detect Aura, but for seeing spirits. She could practice that in order to acclimate her body to spirit mana use, then we’d eventually work on upgrading her sigil.

I took a bit of time to work on upgrading my own Null-Contract Gauntlet to trade out more of my grey mana for spirit mana, since I’d been wearing it for long enough that it felt safe to go up a bit higher, but I didn’t push it too far. Just up to fifteen mana, rather than ten. I also upgraded it with the same improved anti-tampering runes and anti-detection runes I’d put on Mara’s, then borrowed Patrick’s gauntlet and made the same upgrades. That process took hours, but it was important work, and it felt good to be working on enchanting projects again, even if the tasks were fairly basic.

After that, I rested and did some reading, until Mara came and visited me to repay me for the sigil. I assured her she didn’t need to do it rightaway, but it was obvious she didn’t like the debt hanging over her, so we upgraded my enhancement battery. After that, she was low enough on mana that rest would be needed before doing the shield sigil upgrade, and I still needed to find the right runes for the job, anyway.

She wasn’t my last visitor for the day. And unfortunately, while the next conversation was one that I needed to have, it wasn’t one I’d been looking forward to.

***I was marginally surprised when Sera managed to dislodge herself from her blankets to pay me a visit. She was still barely suppressing shivers and held a cup of some kind of steaming liquid between her hands, but it was good to see her out of bed.

I really should make her something to help keep her warm. In the meantime…I beckoned her into my own small train car. “You can borrow my blankets.”

She nodded gratefully, sitting on my bed and adjusting the blankets to drape over her while she sat, still clutching the cup. I wasn’t sure if she ever actually intended to drink whatever was in there or if she was just using it for warmth.

“Good to see you up and about. Have you been feeling better?”

“Not really.” She grimaced. “I’ve been doing some research on my condition, but it’ll be easier when I have access to Edrians at the council. The ‘shal’ thing implies Tyrenian alchemy, and parts of Edria were settled by Tyrenians. Whether or not anyone attending the gathering will be familiar with a specific alchemical formula, I can’t say, but it may offer a lead.”

“A gateway crystal might?” I offered.

“Once I’m feeling a bit better, I intend to talk to the transcendence crystal about it. Resurrection magic and similar things tend to be the types of knowledge that require boons to purchase, though, and that’s trickier. My contract with the crystal doesn’t provide me with infinite information for free. There’s room to negotiate, but…I’m tired. And that’s not what I’m here to talk about.”

“Sure. Just don’t defer something important forever. That’s my job.”

She gave a weak chuckle. “Well, at least you’re self-aware. And…that is why I’m here.”

“Which world-shaking problem have I been ignoring for too long?”

Sera shook her head. “Nothing world-shaking. More personal, really. We didn’t really talk about what happened with Father after it was resolved. I know that was deliberate on your part — you wanted to move forward with your life. But there are elements of that situation that are too important to ignore, in the greater context of what we’re about to get involved in.”

I grimaced. She was right, of course. I’d been very deliberately avoiding following up on the situation with my father and the aftermath of destroying his principal motivation for…well, everything. “Do you think I went too far?”

“Not in the slightest. Knowing how he treated you…honestly, I think you were merciful. You didn’t have to leave Father with any attunement at all. He’s still effectively crippled, however. Not because Enchanters are weak, as he asserted so strenuously and incorrectly, but because his body is acclimated to near-opposite mana types, and he’ll have a long adjustment period to acclimate. From what I’ve heard, he was a Carnelian, rather than a Citrine, in the days before he left.”

“…Left?” I asked.

“For a second Judgment.”

I took a deep breath. “A second Judgment? Where?”

“I don’t know.” Sera shook her head. “But what I do know is that he took enough money to pay for the Judgment and left instructions that, if he should not return, the house would be turned over to you. That was weeks ago, and there’s been no word from him.”

I was silent.

Had…I just lost another family member to a Judgment? And…had it been because of my own actions, this time?I had known that there was a possibility — a significant one, in fact — that Father would attempt to get a second attunement after he fully processed what had happened. There were several alternative options, of course.

He could have pushed his pride aside and asked me to reverse the changes, which I would have considered if he’d approached me with a sincere enough apology for his actions. That, of course, was extraordinarily unlikely.

He could have leveraged the house’s resources to try to buy an artificial attunement — perhaps even an artificial version of Shaper. I genuinelywasn’t sure if we had anything that he could sell that would cover that cost. Our home, maybe? I wasn’t sure what the value of that looked like. Or perhaps Alaric’s cane?But I doubted pride would allow him to use anything he deemed “artificial.” Especially given the clear connections between artificial attunements and what I’d done to him.

Beyond that, going hunting for a crystal mark in the Unclaimed Lands was also possible, or even going off-continent for another form of magic.

Honestly, I’d also considered that he might simply kill himself, either directly, or through something like suicide-by-climbing.

I’d never expected him to simply sit around. And if I’d been taking bets, going for a second Judgment would have been high on my list of possibilities. Judgments came with a cultural idea that any power earned within was granted by the goddess, and thus, deserved. If he survived his Judgment and came out with a second attunement, he’d feel he deserved it, and perhaps it would give him a way to rebuild his personal identity.

But if he failed…well, that was the goddess’ will, wasn’t it?I clenched my jaw. It would be easy to blame myself for his actions, but I refused. He’d been the one who had chosen to raise his cane to a child, time and time again — and he was the one who had challenged me to a duel with no limitations.

I’d let that abuser destroy my life for long enough. But now, if he was gone, I had a responsibility to the rest of my family. And, after processing what Sera was saying more fully, I knew where she was going with it. “You want me to declare him dead and take over the house.”

She shook her head. “Not precisely. I think you should declare yourself the interim lord, since Father is absent in a time of war. This will give us the political leverage that you’ll need as Lord Cadence, but with room to adjust if he does return — or, if, perhaps, your mother has more information that she has not provided to us. It also gives you room for other decisions that are more permanent even if he doesn’t return.”

“…Other decisions, meaning turning the house over to you?” A single curt nod in response. “Yes.”

“Is that something that you want?”

“It was,” she admitted freely. “Now, with my health being what it is, it would be a poor strategic choice. The ruler of House Cadence cannot look weak in a time of war. We may not be one of the great houses of ancientValian history, but there is a level of symbolism involved in being the house that famously ended the most recent continental war. If I was to come forward as an Invoker of Seiyu, that would offer enough prestige, that would be significant enough to make me appear on paper to be a worthy and formidable heir. God Beast Summoners have tremendous prestige, and ascended attunements are the things of legend. But none of that matters if I can barely step out of a chair. I am in no condition to represent us at the council — not as I am now.”

“I…I’m sorry. I…I wish I could have done more. Saffron was just so fast, and—”

“He wasn’t,” Sera interrupted, surprising me. “What?”

“Well, he was fast, but not overwhelmingly so. Not to the extent he appeared to be. I…I must have watched that battle a hundred times, from different angles. Mine, brief as it was. Mara’s. Patrick’s. I would value yours as well, should you be willing to speak to Researcher and have a memory crystal made, but I haven’t wanted to bother you with it. From our various perspectives, however, I’ve gained some insight, and I realized how foolish my original assessment was. How much I’d missed, even if it should have been painfully obvious.”

I frowned. “I’m not sure that watching something like that over and over is healthy, Sera. It’s—”

“I needed it. I needed to understand what I’d missed, how I’d let something like that…” She winced, pulling the blankets tighter. “I died, Corin, or something close enough to it that there’s little meaningful difference. I can’t allow myself to ever walk into a situation like that again. We were woefully unprepared, but not in the ways I’d thought in the immediate aftermath of the fight. It wasn’t speed, Corin. Derek with your Mass Haste spell could have matched that — and he did, once he realized what was happening. From Patrick’s vision, you were very nearly capable of matching his speed yourself, while you were controlled by Thorn and using those strange techniques. The problem is that we didn’t see the real battle at all. Not until it was too late, and perhaps not even then.”

Something clicked in my mind when she delivered that last line. “You’re talking about his illusions and simulacra.”

“Right. At first, I wondered how someone who wasn’t even the real Saffron could have injured Derek as quickly as he did, with that invisibleattack right at the start of the battle. It took me an embarrassingly long time to realize that isn’t what happened.” She sighed. “Saffron — the real Saffron — was probably standing around, invisible, throughout the entire opening of the fight. He was playing with us. When the fake Saffron moved, the invisible one just hit Derek from inside his shroud, making it look like he had impossibly high speed. There were several moments in the fight that likely involved similar trickery. It wasn’t raw strength or speed we needed, Corin. Or, at least, not just that. We never saw the threat at all.”

“That’s…” My hands opened and closed in the air. “…incredibly frustrating. If we’d walked in with an invisibility detection spell up…”

“We might have been able to dodge his tricks entirely, yes. For what it’s worth, I don’t think your magic — or even Researcher’s — would have shown even a hint of him. Saffron’s magic clearly doesn’t work like ours. He’s a dominion sorcerer, like Keras, with massively variable levels of power in different sorcery types, and some of his spells weren’t impressive at all. But, as Keras warned us, deception was one of Saffron’s areas of specialization. I don’t think we had a counter. Derek might have managed it, however, if we’d planned for it. An Emerald-level spell to detect invisible opponents would have been a reasonable measure for us to take before going on that mission.”

“…Sure, in retrospect. But Derek has limited contract slots, and—”

“Yes, I know. Many things are clear in retrospect that we could not have necessarily anticipated. But…for the future…it would make me feel more comfortable if we have some way of detecting powerful illusions before we step into battles against high-level opponents.”

I nodded in sympathy. “Of course. I’ll plan for that. It’ll go on the list.

Honestly, the real one. I promise.”

“Good.” She nodded. “Because I don’t think Saffron was the only one playing tricks that we missed. And I don’t know if we’ve seen the end of those manipulations.”

“You mean Aayara?” I asked, vaguely alarmed. “You think she has further plans for us?”

“I wouldn’t be surprised. She…was entirely too unsurprised. Made her deals too quickly and easily. Even watching Patrick’s perspective, I can’t see any evidence she was physically in the room before Saffron went down, but I wouldn’t be surprised. I think she might have helped us.”

“Helped us? Why?”

“Not for our sake, of course. But Saffron was, as Keras put it, trying to be a ‘third player in a two-player game.’ I think she was using us as a tool to get rid of, to use an unfortunate turn of phrase, a thorn in her side.”

“How would she have helped, though? If she was fighting him invisibly in the background somehow, I don’t think we would have missed—”

“Nothing so overt as that. I suspect that, either right before or right after Patrick hit him, she did something to turn off Saffron’s regeneration.”

I frowned. “I don’t know, Sera. I think it’s plausible Bright Reflection did that itself. Saffron was supposed to be weak against things like light and spirit magic.”

“Sure, but you practically blew him in half with Ceris storing one of Elora’s spells in your previous fight. Do you think Bright Reflection hit him harder than that?”

I shrugged. “I genuinely don’t know. It’s possible that either Patrick’s sword or mine hit Saffron directly in his heart Dianis Point, which did something to disrupt his abilities in a way that our previous attacks didn’t. Certain magical interactions can be much more destructive than others.”

“Maybe. Won’t discount it as a possibility, especially in Selys-Lyann’s case — I could see Thorn playing a role in turning off Saffron’s defenses, potentially, even if he was banished and couldn’t communicate. But that’s the problem, Corin. We couldn’t tell. Even looking back at the memories, we couldn’t see enough to draw reasonable or accurate conclusions. So… I’d like your help.”

“Understood. A high-level illusion-countering item will be one of my priorities. It’s going to take some time, though, both due to my recovery and because I don’t have the resources to make one. We could look into buying one at the summit, or trading one, if you’d like.”

“Reasonable. And…that brings us back to the first point. Are you willing to go with my plan for the house?”

“A temporary declaration of lordship?” I took a breath, considering. “If I’m honest, I don’t want that responsibility. But…yeah, Sera. I can handle it.” I flexed my hands. “I’ll play the role of Lord Cadence. At least for a little while.”

“Good.” Sera nodded. “In that case, take this.” She reached into a pouch at her side, revealing a glove.

I raised an eyebrow at her. “I’m not good at this sort of thing, but I’m pretty sure I’m the one who is supposed to be offering gloves to people.”

She chuckled. “In terms of your right hand, certainly, and giving that to Patrick was an excellent move. For your left, however,” she handed me the glove, “wearing something to symbolize your own house is a wise move for this kind of gathering.”

I nodded, inspecting the glove. As I turned it over in my hands, I noticed that the supple material had a metallic glint to both the basic fabric and the House Cadence symbol. “Metalweave?”

“Silverweave. The good stuff, like what they make higher-end dueling tunics out of. I was certain you’d want something you could enchant.”

“Thanks, Sera. This is a great gift.” I raised the glove, then slipped it on. “Fits better than I would have expected. Maybe playing this role won’t be so bad, at least for a little while.”

When I went to bed that night, I had no idea just how quickly I’d regret those words.

***The next morning, I groggily woke to the sound of a knock on the door of my train car. I might have managed to mutter something like, “Minute,” in response.

Patrick was, fortunately, more coherent. “Who’s there?”

“Breakfast delivery for Master Corin Cadence.” The voice was unfamiliar, but that wasn’t too strange. “Master” was odd, and maybe a little overly formal, but I did technically have that title even if I didn’t claim the lordship.

As I sat up and rubbed at my eyes, still lost in thought, Patrick opened the door. I got a brief look at someone with a rolling cart. Atop it was a metal plate covered by a metal dome, which seemed to be how they kept the food hot for deliveries or something. I’d ordered food delivered to the car a few times before, since excessive contact with people was something I preferred to avoid even in the best of times.

“Thanks for ordering breakfast,” I murmured to Patrick.

“I didn’t, though. Must have been Sera thinking ahead, or…do you know who sent this, sir?”

“Hm? No name was given. Lord Cadence, forgive me for bothering you, but can you sign for the delivery?”

I blinked tired eyes. I didn’t usually need to sign for food, but I supposed if someone else had paid for it, that made a degree of sense. Iextracted myself from the bed, still in pajamas, and came over to accept a pen and began to sign my name on a paper on top of the cart.

As I did so, the server began to lift the metal dome off the tray—And Patrick, faster than I’d ever seen him react, yelled something I didn’t quite catch and whipped his hands in two different directions.

A burst of wind lashed out, hurling me hard toward the back wall of the train car. A second burst hurled the tray, cart, and server in the opposite direction, completely out of our train car and toward the opposite side.

I hit the wall hard, my impact cushioned by both my shrouds and my shield sigils, which I was, as always, wearing on my pajamas. I caught sight of Patrick whipping his hand in a horizontal direction, causing our train car’s door to slam shut, just before the world was consumed by thunder and fire.

The sound was deafening, but the sight of what happened next was worse. The detonation caved the metal door inward, sending a shower of shrapnel directly into Patrick, who still stood in front of it. He fell backward in a bleeding mess, his own shroud deflecting some of the pieces, but his shield sigils were still pinned to his folded uniform in his bags.

I heard screams — his scream, my own scream, and Mara from across the hall.

I rushed to Patrick as he fell, immediately assessing the damage. I was no proper healer, but without his shield sigil on, he didn’t have any form of active regeneration effect — and with dozens of slivers of metal protruding from his skin, Patrick needed immediate help. More than I could give, in truth, but I wasn’t going to sit and do nothing.

Not when my retainer had body-blocked an assassination attempt meant for me.

Patrick writhed on the floor as I knelt next to him, his hands covering his face. There were splinters there, but fortunately, I didn’t see any splinters near his eyes. His arm had been raised from his last motion to shut the door, and it must have been in front of his face when the door exploded. He still had cuts on other parts of his face where his arm hadn’t covered, but he’d avoided anything immediately lethal, if only barely.

Regeneration spells generally were considered beneficial even when foreign objects were stuck in the body, since they’d usually push the objects outward. I immediately put a hand on him and hit him with a Sunstone- level Regeneration spell. While my instincts pushed me toward usingTranscendent Regeneration, I knew that we weren’t out of danger, and I couldn’t risk incapacitating myself by dipping into transcendence before I recovered.

After that, I began to carefully pull out the worst of the slivers, holding Patrick down with my other hand to prevent him from squirming while I worked.

“I’ve got you, you’re going to be okay,” I tried to reassure him, but I wasn’t so sure, and I wasn’t good at that type of thing.

Only a minute had passed before Mara ripped off the remains of the door to the room. “Patrick!” she yelled, then she was down at his side as well. “The resh happened?”

“Assassination attempt. Patrick noticed it, I didn’t. He body-blocked the doorway before the explosion. You and Sera okay?”

“We’re mostly fine, we were in bed and most of the metal shards didn’t hit where we were sitting, but uh, don’t try to walk straight out the door. The floor is mostly gone.”

I blinked at that. “Was there a body outside?” “Not that I saw, but there was blood on the wall.”

I cursed. The assassin had either fallen when the floor collapsed or survived and ran — in either case, he had a lead.

“Get us a healer,” I told her. “I’m doing what I can, but—”

Patrick reached up and grabbed Mara’s arm, still trembling. “I’ll be fine.

Get the assassin.”

I glanced down at Patrick. “No, you need a healer first. That’s the priority, not catching—”

“I’ll get a healer,” Sera called from across the hall. “Or, rather, I’ll message Elora, and—”

More screams from other parts of the train. No explosions, but several sounds of spells going off, coming from multiple directions.

“This wasn’t isolated,” Mara murmured. “This was enemy action. We’re under attack.”

Sera floated across the hall. “We may not get help for a bit. Wall.” A wall of ice manifested over the doorway. “Message: Elora, we’ve been hit by an assassination attempt. Patrick is down, needs healer. Will attempt to stabilize him ourselves.”

I looked up at Mara. “Your healing lessons?”

“Not much further along than yours. I’ll help you fish out the metal bits, then I’ll see what I can do.”

As we worked, Sera frowned, seeming to listen to something I couldn’t hear. “We’re not going to get help immediately, this is—”

The ground beneath us wrenched, and I barely had time to cover my head as I heard a screech — and our entire train car flipped as it was hurled off the rails.

Mara slammed her good hand into the ground, forming a hemispheric barrier around us — not dissimilar from the barriers I’d seen Teft use during our first encounter with Mizuchi. That meant that as the train car tumbled at massive speed, our bodies simply slammed into the protective shield — and each other — rather than the train walls or the shattering glass of the windows.

I don’t know how long we rolled before we came to a stop. My neck and back were in agony, but the barrier had saved us from the worst of it… at least for the moment. We’d been hit hard and I wasn’t thinking clearly, but even in that state, I knew that it took a lot of power to rip a train car clean off the train and hurl it — and, as my vision cleared and I oriented myself, I realized the scale was much worse than that.

As Mara dispersed her barrier, I could see that the former door to my train car was now above us — we’d flipped with the window-side now beneath us. A brief look out the door showed me that it hadn’t just been that our car had been ripped free.

Something had ripped the entire train in half and tossed our portion off the tracks.

I didn’t get much more of a look before Sera yanked me downward —a blast of lightning flashed where my head had been a moment before.

“Stay down,” Sera managed, then burst into a coughing fit. I gave her a concerned look, wondering if it was a recurrence of her problems with her lungs and throat, but we had more pressing concerns.

Being thrown hadn’t exactly helped Patrick’s condition.

Mara and I looked over the damage, exchanging grim looks. Patrick was pale, bleeding badly, and…“Put the barrier back up,” Sera said, “And make what room you can.

I’m going to summon help.”

Mara nodded, reforming her barrier, and we shifted our positions to create an opening.

Sera and I had previously discussed the risks of summoning on a moving train — it wasn’t generally a great idea, nor was teleportation, unless you were skilled enough to be able to do it in such a way that you could account for the movement of the vehicle during the process. While Sera might have managed that with a semester of additional practice since our last train trip, being ripped free of the train had eliminated that particular problem.

“Transcendence Gateway Crystal, I summon you,” Sera whispered. A miniature version of the crystal appeared hovering in the air above us. “My friend here is badly injured. Can you treat him?”

[Healing injuries is not my primary skill set, but I can provide some measure of assistance. Please hold his body still.]Mara and I held Patrick’s arms and legs, while Sera held his hands. The crystal flashed, then I saw the remaining shrapnel that was stuck in his body vanish, one piece at a time.

The crystal must be teleporting the fragments out to avoid further injury, I realized. That’s…a trick I should learn.

After that, a pale white light flooded over the train car. I recognized the mana in the air as a blend of life and transcendence, not dissimilar from what I used in my own Transcendent Regeneration spell. It…wasn’t a lot of mana, though.

[Regrettably, with my present mana supply, this is the extent to which I can assist you.]I got the hint and began searching through the rubble of the train car for my dimensional bag. It turned out to be outside Mara’s barrier, which required lowering the shield briefly, but I fetched it — and Selys-Lyann — without incident.

After that, the barrier went back up, and I began the familiar process of feeding mana into the crystal. The light of healing brightened as I fueled the crystal’s power. As time passed, Patrick’s color began to return, but he wasn’t anywhere close to fully healed when we heard a knock on the side of the train car.

Instantly, Mara and I were up, my sword in my hand before I knew what was happening.

“You alive in there? We need to move!”

With a hint of relief, I recognized Mary Hawthorne’s voice. “We’re alive, but Patrick is still badly hurt.”

“Get him mobile! You need to get out of there, now! We’re looking at about two minutes before another massive attack hits the train!”

I let out a hiss.

“It’s fine, I can…” Patrick winced as he began to sit up, then his head flopped back down. “Okay, you’re gonna have to carry me.”

We wrenched him to his feet, and he wobbled, but managed to stand on trembling legs.

“Barrier coming down,” Mara called. “Mary, catch and set!”

As soon as the barrier lifted, Sera hurled her teleportation anchor out of the top of the train car door.

“Got it, you’re clear!”

Sera activated her circlet, then we were standing outside the train. Patrick nearly collapsed immediately, but Mary and Vermillion were there to help catch him and hold him.

“We’re moving this way, come on!” Mary said, handing Sera her anchor, and then we were moving at a half-run, half-carrying Patrick.

Sera dismissed the summoned crystal as we ran, instead summoning Vanniv.

“Ah, hello everyone! What a wonderful—” Vanniv scanned the battlefield. “Oh, never mind, everything is terrible.”

“Carry Patrick, please,” Sera said simply.

“Understood.” Vanniv bent down, and we passed Patrick into his arms.

The karvensi lifted Patrick easily.

We moved much faster after that — fast enough that we were out of range when a beam of mana the width of one of the train cars flashed in the distance and crashed into the fallen train.

The pressure from the resulting explosion knocked me to my knees. Mara was helping me up a moment later, while Vermillion wrenched Sera to her feet. Then we were running again.

I tried not to think about how many people were still on that train while metal and glass melted into slag.

“This is…do we have a plan?” Mara asked.

“Crystal shrine,” Vermillion explained. “It isn’t far. Theas is setting up there.”

That was a half-explanation, at least. It might have meant that Elora was setting up defenses around a shrine to make it a defensible location, or itmight have meant that she was getting people inside the shrine. Depending on the nature of the shrine itself, I knew that meant that it might be usable as a defensible location…but I doubted the crystal within would appreciate being involved in warfare.

She might have an existing rapport with one of them, or the nation of Valia might.

I didn’t bother to question it further out loud. My efforts were focused on running, and during the run, trying to sort through the items and resources I had available. Patrick’s shield sigil had been left on the train, so I handed one of my own to Vanniv to pin it onto Patrick while they moved.

While we moved, Sera ran closer to me. “Can you spare mana?” I nodded, grabbing her hand and giving her a recharge.

In a new trick I didn’t have time to think about, she summoned a second copy of Vanniv.

“We need an aerial scout,” she told him.

“Noted, going.” The second Vanniv flew upward.

I heard more explosions behind us, but in spite of the terror and tension, we made it to the shrine without directly coming into any more combat.

The first thing I saw was a massive black pyramid surrounded by twenty-foot-tall golems. I mistook this for the shrine itself at first, before seeing an unfamiliar attuned standing outside conjuring more blocks of that stone, which someone else was shifting into a line of pillars.

We found Elora near the entrance.

“Vanniv, take Patrick in, the healer’s tent is on the left side,” Elora commanded. Vanniv gave a quick glance at Sera, to which she nodded, before heading inside. “Are the rest of you intact? Good. Sera, you’re with me. Mary, Vermillion, we’ll have a tower for you shortly. Corin, you’re on cannon construction.”

“I…haven’t actually built cannons before.”

“Well, then today will be a learning experience.” “…And me?” Mara asked, her voice small.

“Remove your self-pity, first off.” Elora considered. “How well can you use Patrick’s sword?”

A series of emotions rapidly flashed across Mara’s face. “…I’ve borrowed it before.”

“Good enough. You,” Elora gestured inward, “get to go borrow it again.

Get familiar with it.”

“And then?” Mara asked.

“And then, you get to see if you’re good enough to reflect siege-level spells with it.”

Mara hesitated. “What if I can’t?”

Elora gave her a helpless shrug. “Well, then you probably won’t live long enough to be embarrassed, now will you?”

