CHAPTER II – THE SHARP EDGE OF

MEMORY

My vision flickered as I spoke the single word to activate the memory crystal.

I’d watched some of Keras’ memory crystals with Mara already, but this one was different, even beyond what Keras had implied within his message. I recognized the backdrop immediately. A massive chamber with royal carpeting draped across a colossal stairwell. Titanic pillars holding up a ceiling high above. One of those pillars had been crushed when Keras had been hurled into it with impossible force. Obviously, he’d simply dustedhimself off, but the pillar had a harder time cleaning itself.

Six floating swords hovered in the air, weapons produced through Keras reshaping the daggers he’d held in his coat. They were still, now, but gleamed with silent power. And…they looked familiar, now that I had a bit more context. Each of the swords he formed had a different shape — one arming sword, one dao, one jian, a saber…The Six Sacred Swords. He’s making each of those daggers into an approximation of one of them. Is that just a stylistic choice, or…does he still have more of their power than he’s been letting on?From Keras’ perspective, I saw familiar figures. Echion was unconscious. Vera looked absolutely terrified.

The visage Katashi stood atop the stairway, his white wings fully extended, and the hilt of Ceris, the Song of Harmony, in his grasp. His expression was full of confidence and disdain as he gazed downward. At that moment, his eyes turned toward me.

Not Keras. Me.

It was the day of my Judgment, and I was currently in the process of fleeing the room.

I looked so much younger, then. So much weaker. My hair was askew, my dueling tunic torn, an antique dueling cane my only weapon if I’d turned toward a hopeless fight. No attunement mark on my forehead, nor on my hand.

Just a boy, one without the slightest comprehension of how far he was truly in over his head.

And then I was gone, successfully escaping through the door along with Vera and Echion. And I understood, then, why Keras had chosen to start the memory here — it grounded me in that moment. It helped me identify exactly when this vision took place. Everything beyond it would be new to me.

As the door slammed shut, Keras turned his gaze up toward Katashi. “So.” He stretched his arms, then shifted his neck from back to right with a crack. “We still doing this, or your demonstration over?”

Katashi gazed downward at Keras, his eyes narrowing. “You presume much, Selyrian.”

“Oh, constantly. But in this case, it’s pretty obvious that you let them leave.”

“What makes you say that?” the visage asked.

Keras must have closed his eyes, since my vision went black. “You’re going to make me spell it out? Fine, I’ll play.” I heard a sigh. “You’re a visage. You supposedly have every attunement. I don’t actually think your abilities work that way. You were probably born before the existence of attunements, but probably do have access to near-every dominion. Assuming you do, you had hundreds of routes to stop them. Thousands, maybe. Wave a hand and teleport them. Raise a wall to seal the doorway. Summon monsters. Create simulacra of yourself.”

“You would have interfered, would you not?” Katashi sounded amused, but when Keras’ eyes opened, there was no sign of levity on Katashi’s face.

“With some of those options, sure. But I was going easy, too, because I noticed that you weren’t really trying. You let the kid shoot down one of your attacks.”

“What makes you think that was deliberate?”

“Even if that dueling cane was Emerald-level, which I sincerely doubt, it wouldn’t have been able to negate a serious attack from a visage. And youhad to make them go slowly enough for him to hit one, too. You were testing him.”

“Perhaps I was.” Katashi lowered his head in a hint of acknowledgement. “The scion of House Cadence remains within his Judgment, after all.”

My mind swam with the implications of that, but the vision didn’t slow itself to give me time to think. I’d considered the possibility that I was still being tested when I’d walked into that room, but in the aftermath, I hadn’t spent enough time considering the possibility that my escape had been deliberate. Manufactured.

…But if it was a part of the Judgment…had I chosen the right route?The route that Katashi approved of?Was that why he’d chosen me to be his Arbiter? Because I’d been willing to…oppose him?I would have frowned in thought if I could have.

Keras, however, made no such expression. Instead, he began to stretch his legs. “Sure, that’s probably a part of it. But you let the others escape, too. I’ve had a chance to spend a bit of time with Vera and Echion. If you’re letting them escape…what’s the plan?”

“Perhaps I will simply apprehend them again as soon as they walk out the door.”

Keras shook his head. “Maybe, but I don’t think so. You’re up to something. You made a show of trying to stop them — but fortunately for them, Keras Selyrian was there to allow them to escape. It’s a stretch, of course, but the kind of story that a starved and desperate person might believe. And if they think they’ve really escaped…maybe they’ll go straight to whoever sent them. Maybe you don’t know who that is. Or maybe you just want to give someone the impression that you tried to stop whatever is coming as a result of all this.”

Katashi rested his hands on the top of Ceris’ hilt, placing the weapon’s tip on the floor and leaning against it. That was generally terrible weapon discipline, but I supposed that it didn’t really matter with a near- indestructible artifact. He wasn’t exactly going to dull the tip. “A fascinating hypothesis. I’m pleased you’ve decided to abandon the façade of the clueless foreigner. Tell me, Keras Selyrian. What were you playing at?”

Keras hesitated for just a moment, then groaned. “It wasn’t completely an act. My memories aren’t entirely intact. And beyond that…you realize I’ve been in your prison for weeks, right? I can use stability sorcery to reduce my need for food and water, but in order to eliminate that requirement entirely, I’d have to place myself in stasis, and that’s too much of a risk. So…”

“You’re starving. Exhausted and near-delirious from sleep deprivation.” Katashi lifted a hand off his sword to wave it casually. “Yes, I’m aware. There’s a part of me that would have been pleased to face you at your strongest, but even without the cell, it’s far too late for that, isn’t it?”

Keras took a step forward. “I wouldn’t count me out just yet.”

“Ah, such arrogance, in spite of everything. You know that I was holding back while the children were here, but I don’t think you comprehend the scale of what you face.”

“Oh, you have no idea how much I’ve been looking forward to finding out.” Keras took a step forward, then lifted his sword lazily to rest it against his shoulder. “I suppose I should check and see if you’re willing to talk first, though.”

“I think not.” Katashi tossed Ceris into the air, the sword hovering in place as Katashi folded his arms. “You may lack your former strength, but you still have an uncanny habit of disrupting events beyond your understanding. Your cell or your grave. You choose.”

“Neither of those sounds very comfortable, so I’ll go with option three.

I’ll offer you a chance to surrender.”

“Don’t be absurd.” Katashi’s entire body began to glow. “Any last words?”

“Maybe eventually.” Keras lifted his free hand and made a “come at me” gesture. “But not today.”

“Very well.” Katashi bowed his head. Then the room exploded.

My eyes couldn’t quite process what happened — something spread across the chamber so quickly that I couldn’t follow it.

Then, Keras was stumbling back, rapidly bashing aside a flurry of strikes from Katashi. Keras’ clothing was ablaze, along with the formerly majestic tapestries on the walls and carpeting on the floors. Smoke choked the air.

Keras’ back slammed into a newly manifested wall of green stone, then he ducked, barely avoiding a swing from Ceris that jammed into it where his head had been. He countered with a swing at Katashi’s midsection, his own blade too fast for me to follow and trailing a silvery blur. Katashi simply vanished, then reappeared at Keras’ left side.

A crystal blade traced a long cut along Keras’ left arm as he turned, then, hissing in pain, and swung his own sword again. As before, Keras met only empty air.

Keras spun, sending a cutting wave of silvery energy in Katashi’s direction as the visage reappeared. The blade seemed to slice straight through Katashi — but the visage simply warbled when the cut passed through him, then vanished.

Illusion, I realized, seemingly at the same moment Keras did. The swordsman barely jumped to the side as Ceris passed through the crystal wall that was behind him, piercing the space where he’d been standing. When he turned toward the real Katashi, however, he was too slow to block the blast of pure golden light that came from Katashi’s other hand.

The light slammed into Keras’ chest, burning a hole through the center of his shirt and leaving his skin blistered beneath.

Then, with a groan, Keras began to walk forward through the beam.

Katashi’s eyes betrayed a moment of surprise, but before Keras could close the distance to swing, he simply vanished again.

Keras exhaled a deep breath, then swung again, simultaneously pressing the backs of his boots together.

When Keras’ next cut rippled through the air, Katashi tsked, then vanished again, reappearing in the air high above.

“An anti-teleportation technique? You thought that would work? Do you have any concept of how little power you have compared to mine?” Katashi brought his hand down.

The air rippled. Keras’ legs trembled.

I understood what was happening — it was the same technique that Katashi had once used to slam Vera, Echion, and myself into the floor. The same technique that Keras had once brushed off—But from the way the world blurred and every single support pillar began to splinter and crack, the intensity must have been a hundred times greater.

If I had stood in that room, I would have been ground to dust.

A silvery aura flared around Keras, only for a moment, then his legs steadied. Barely.

Keras’ hand trembled on the grip of his sword — then he launched himself into the air, taking his sword in both hands and bringing it up. A silver sheen flared across the entire blade, then he swept it down, producing a cleaving cut nearly the height of the entire room. For a moment, it looked as if the massive cut moved so quickly it would rip Katashi asunder, but before it landed, Katashi simply vanished again.

“Futility.” With the motion of a single finger, he tore Keras from the skies, hurling him to the floor below. Keras landed with a crash, Katashi settling on the floor nearby a moment later. “Your attacks are far too slow to—”

I heard a whistling sound as dozens of gleaming silver crescents flashed across the room toward Katashi. And, though I couldn’t feel Keras’ lips move, the subtle shifting of his eyes told me that a bloodstained grin had crossed his lips.

That’s…the Pale Crescent’s technique! Keras wasn’t just missing those swings earlier…he was leaving crescent echoes around the room!Katashi swung around, a startled expression on his face as he swung Ceris to meet the first of the gleaming cuts. The artifact blade flashed as it activated the spell-stealing function it was famous for—And failed.

The silvery cut was deflected by the swing, crashing into the floor, but the attack had not been absorbed. And as Katashi fell back, his weapon flashing in a rapidly increasing tempo of parries, each of the blades rose again and again, rippling unceasingly in Katashi’s direction.

As Katashi backpedaled, Keras stomped a foot, causing the ground beneath Katashi to ripple and liquify.

Katashi stood upon the liquified ground as if nothing had happened. His expression dipped into a sneer. “So, you’ve retained a fraction of the Pale Crescent’s power, and have a few childish tricks.” Katashi growled. “It is irrelevant. Enough!”

The silvery cuts froze in mid-air.

Keras surged forward with greater speed, his aura flaring silver, his sword flashing upward—But he never got close. With a flick of Katashi’s finger, the air rippled; Keras was flying across the room and crashing into one of the far walls.

By the time Keras began to push himself off the stone, Katashi was above him, Ceris plunging down.

Keras rolled on the floor, hurling a blast of flame with his left hand.

Katashi caught the blast of fire with a glare, his eyes seeming to freeze it in mid-air, then sent it back in Keras’ direction. With a hiss, Keras sliced his own attack apart as he rose, leaving a silvery gleam that hovered in the air where his sword had passed.

As Keras tried to steady himself, Katashi casually gestured at a nearby pillar, which disassembled itself into dozens of circular segments then ripped across the room in Keras’ direction.

Keras didn’t bother trying to dodge. Instead, he stepped forward into the attacks, swinging so rapidly that the segments of stone were reduced to thousands of splinters. When the fragments fell, however, Katashi was gone.

Keras spun around in alarm, searching — then jumping backward as the ground beneath him split apart, with Katashi emerging from below, wreathed in a nimbus of blue fire.

When Keras swung again, Katashi stepped back easily, avoiding the cut and the silvery trail that followed. Then Katashi pressed two fingers against Ceris, causing the blue flames surrounding him to swirl and surge into the sword’s crystalline blade. Katashi brought his blade down in a blazing blur, even the air itself around his weapon seeming to blacken and burn.

Keras met the swing with one of his own. When the two blades met, the room was bathed in cerulean flames — then Keras, alone, was hurled backward to crash into the ground.

The swordsman coughed, wiping blood from his lips, his limbs trembling as he attempted to push himself to his feet.

Katashi appeared in the distance, standing right where he’d started. Keras’ left eye blinked rapidly in response to the blood trickling from his forehead; Katashi was half-blurred from Keras’ vision failing.

Katashi sighed. “That should about wrap things up, I believe.” He snapped a finger. The shattered floors began to mend. The splintered pillar’s pieces lifted from the ground, beginning to settle and merge where they’d once stood. The obliterated carpet began to reform across the floor. In moments, the room began to resemble the way it had begun, save for theone pillar that had been shattered when I had still been in the room — and the lingering gleams of silver in the air left behind where Keras’ sword had passed.

“…Not…done.” Keras coughed, leaning on his sword and beginning to push himself to his feet.

“Oh, I think you are. I—”

The six floating swords very nearly hit Katashi from behind.

He scowled, spun, and froze the weapons in mid-air. The swords trembled, seemingly resisting Katashi’s control.

Keras launched himself from the ground with a surge of speed, seeking to exploit Katashi’s distraction. His sword flashed at Katashi’s face, but froze in mid-air as Keras’ body was enveloped in a block of ice.

Keras trembled, his body straining. Flames spread across his skin, slowly beginning to melt the frost, but it was not quick enough.

“How pitiful.” Katashi regarded the floating weapons. “At your peak, perhaps you could have given me a hint of a challenge. But as you are now? I think not. You will not stop me with a shallow effort to mirror something you abandoned.”

Katashi snapped his fingers.

Six gleaming blades splintered in the air.

“You are no threat to me, Keras Selyrian, Wielder of Nothing. A shame.

Alas, it seems the sun has set, and never will rise—”

If Katashi said another word, I never heard it. In the next moment, there was no sound, no sight…nothing except the sensation of the world itself being cut.

When my senses snapped back into focus, I could barely process what had just happened. There was a single massive line traced across the entirety of the chamber — one that seemed to stretch far beyond it, cleaving through an indeterminate portion of the spire. The support pillars were trembling where they’d been split, and it looked as if the room itself could collapse at any moment.

Perhaps that would have made a chance for one party or another to stop the battle, if they’d still been standing far apart — but in the instant following the cut, they were face-to-face. There was no lurch in my stomach that came with teleportation.

I couldn’t say for certain, but…it didn’t feel like Keras had taken a single step forward.

It was more like he’d simply cut the distance between them, until there was nothing left but the length of the blade that was pressed against the bottom of Katashi’s chin.

“Talk about her again. See what happens.”

Katashi’s expression flickered. Was that…panic? From a visage? “You wouldn’t dare—”

Keras’ left fist slammed into Katashi’s face with an explosive crack, the impact hurling Katashi straight across the upper floor of the chamber and into a wall.

Keras stood in the perfectly smooth hemispherical crater that had been created by the punch, then casually hopped out of it to walk toward where Katashi was groaning and lifting himself from the floor.

“You’ve…made a mistake.” Katashi’s hand lashed out in Keras’ direction. The entire upper floor of the room warped in my vision, twisting and stretching. I recognized it as some kind of spatial manipulation, but of a style and scale I’d never seen. I had no idea how to counter it—Keras walked straight through it, his silver aura flaring brighter and brighter with every passing moment. When he neared Katashi, Keras reached out.

Katashi vanished—And Keras’ hand shot through the air where Katashi had been standing and pulled.

If my eyes could have widened, they would have—Somehow, Keras had caught Katashi mid-teleport, grabbing him by the hair, and wrenched him back to where he’d been before.

Katashi’s eyes widened, uncomprehending, as Keras pulled him downward. For a moment, they were eye-to-eye, then Keras slammed his forehead into Katashi’s nose. There was a crack as Katashi’s head snapped back, then Keras shoved Katashi backward into the nearest wall.

Katashi howled, his own body flaring with light — then Keras’ sword flashed, jamming in the wall next to Katashi’s face.

“You missed,” Katashi sneered.

“Did I?” Keras leaned in closer. Slowly a weeping cut spread across Katashi’s cheek, scarlet trickling across his pale skin. “Give me a reason to try again.”

Katashi shuddered as Keras came closer. “…That won’t be necessary.” “Oh?” Keras lips twisted into a smile. “And why is that?”

“It seems,” Katashi made a sour expression, “I may have underestimated you.”

“Do you surrender, Katashi? Will you throw down your sword and ask for mercy?”

“No.” Katashi straightened, his lips twitching. “And I have no reason to. In your anger, you’ve forgotten what you said when we first started this conversation.”

A blue crystal sword rested against Keras’ shoulder from behind. Keras didn’t turn.

“Simulacra. Illusions. Teleportation. I haven’t forgotten. You might not be the original Katashi — maybe that one behind me is. Maybe neither of you are, or maybe you have more than one. But I’m willing to bet that no matter where the original is, if I detonate all the mana in one of you, it’s going to ruin your day.”

There was a moment as Katashi stared back into Keras’ eyes. “…You’d risk destroying the entire spire if you do that. Perhaps all of Kaldwyn.”

Keras dragged his sword a hint closer to Katashi’s neck. “You try waiting patiently in a single room for two weeks. After a few days, you’ll be ready to destroy a continent, too.”

“…You’re bluffing. I know you, Keras Selyrian. But it doesn’t matter.

You’ve proven that you’re more than capable for what I require.” “And what is that supposed to mean?” Keras eyes narrowed.

“My brother’s absence will change this continent. There will be forces seeking to take advantage the moment that it becomes public — and I cannot be everywhere at once. Perhaps we could make a deal. You wish to speak to Selys. Tell me, Keras Selyrian. Do you think you could stall an invading army?”

Keras ripped his sword free from the wall, flipped it in his hands, and then sheathed it at his side with a manic laugh. “It wouldn’t be the first time. But you’d better hurry with whatever you’re planning. I can’t promise to leave the army in one piece.”

