CHAPTER I – DESPERATE DEPARTURE

Corin Cadence’s Perspective

I cautiously folded the letter in my hands, took a steady breath, then began my race against a declaration of war.

There was no room for doubt or panic to overwhelm me. If Warren Constantine’s letter spoke true, I needed to know more about what was going on…and I needed to let the others know what I’d been told.

I went to Sera first. She was still in a terrible condition. While she seemed to have stabilized to the extent that her life was no longer at risk, no form of treatment we’d given her was enough to stave off the chills that constantly wracked her body. I showed her the letter.

“This is earlier than I anticipated,” she whispered. “But I suppose it was inevitable. The costs will be terrible to behold. We must make haste.”

“I can’t disagree, but…to do what? What can we accomplish?”

Sera offered me a weak smile. “House Cadence was built on the foundation of ending a war. Let’s try to do it in fewer than six years this time.”

We found Patrick and Mara next. Patrick was sitting at the side of Mara’s bed. While Mara’s own condition was also stable, she’d rarely been out of bed since the disastrous battle with Saffron. The loss of her right hand had been more than just a physical injury to her — it had wounded her in a way that would take more than medicine to solve.

We showed them the letter as well.

“But…why?” Patrick asked. “We’ve been at peace with Edria for years. And if they were going to attack because of Tenjin’s disappearance, why wait this long?”

“Both excellent questions.”

I started at the sound of an unexpected voice, then spun toward the speaker.

“But ones built from a faulty assumption,” she continued.

Elora Theas did love her dramatic entrances and exits. I supposed that it was a benefit for anyone who had teleportation magic. Normally, people couldn’t teleport into Derek’s home — I’d made sure of that — but Elora had a key and enjoyed a bit of showmanship. I was grateful that, at least at the moment, the heiress to House Theas was one of our allies — as an Emerald-level Summoner, she had both the power and mobility to be devastating if she used that kind of surprise entrance to attack, rather than just to show off.

Sera seemed both unsurprised and more than willing to steal Elora’s grand reveal. “Edria,” she said, “isn’t all we need to be worried about.”

“Ah, I see someone has been paying attention.” Elora gave Sera a hint of a nod. “Pack quickly, kiddies. I’ll be back in ten minutes to take you to the train. It might be the last one leaving Valia for a while.”

***I raced to shove supplies into my dimensional bag, debating only briefly about if leaving Valia during a time of crisis was the right move. There were probably both ethical and legal concerns, given that I probably had some kind of obligation to the military if we were about to go to war…but I wasn’t likely to make a massive difference on the battlefield on my own. True, I was powerful for my age, but I wasn’t my great grandfather. And I sincerely doubted that what was coming could be halted with a simple duel.

Like it or not, I had one critical reason that I was even being invited to an event like the Emerald Council — the Arbiter mark on my hand. That gave me a degree of leverage, and if my suspicions about the war were accurate, that leverage could be critical.

I stopped by Cecily’s room to make sure she knew what was happening. “Elora told me,” Cecily explained, “but I can’t go. I’m not an Emerald,nor one of your household. My place is with my family.” “I…it may not be safe here.”

She gave me a disbelieving look. “You’re about to ride off into a monster-filled wasteland to speak to some of the most powerful people in the world, Corin. I appreciate the concern, but I’m not the one you should be worried about.”

She had a point. Sera gathered Researcher, then we met in the kitchen area to wait for Elora’s return.

In the meantime, Cecily pulled out the mana watch I’d given her. “Let me check your mana levels before you run off. I’m curious how the Goddess’ Tear impacted Sera’s mana pool, and it’ll be good to get a baseline now, since it’ll be a while before you’re coming back.”

“Fair point.” I nodded, extending my right hand. Cecily took a quick measurement, then blinked. “Three hundred and sixty-six…Corin…you’re a Sunstone.”

I blinked. “Oh.” Honestly, basic attunement levels were a lot less relevant to me since I’d figured out how to manipulate them. Still, it was a milestone to hit the mana requirements for Sunstone legitimately. “Yay?”

Cecily chuckled. “As for your Enchanter mark…that’s at two hundred and sixty-nine. Very impressive as well. You’re ahead of me with both. I just barely broke two hundred.”

“Might not be much longer. I can’t use the Enchanter mark for a while.

Still isn’t safe.”

“You be careful about that,” she said, as if I was the type to go off and do dangerous…oh, right. Yeah, that was fair.

She checked Sera next, blinking rapidly at the measurement. “Three fifty. Sera…you’re almost caught up to Corin! You’re only ten points from Sunstone.”

Sera just nodded quietly. “Fixing the scarring was a huge immediate boost. It gave me back all the power I’d lost when I drank the primer.”

She didn’t sound excited, but I understood why. She was still barely functional after her experience with Saffron, her body trembling even as we stood around waiting for the rest of the group to gather.

Patrick was next, with 302 mana. He was a little further from Sunstone- level, but not much. Maybe a month or two.

That just left Mara, who…still hadn’t gotten out of bed.

“I’ll get her.” Patrick ran back up the stairs just before Elora reappeared. “Well?” Elora glanced around. “You seem to be missing your righthand, Cadence. Wasn’t it someone else who ran into that little problem?” “Don’t.” I shook my head. “I’m not in the mood.”

“And I am not in the mood to wait. There are important things happening, ones that will not bow to the whim of a broken—”

“We’re coming!” Patrick yelled from upstairs. “Just one minute!” Elora glared at me, folding her arms.

Ordinarily, I would have expected Sera to defuse the situation, but she was just staring absently toward the kitchen, as if looking at someone who wasn’t there.

With Sera…indisposed, I turned back to Elora. “Can you bring more people, like Sera’s summons?”

“Why in the world would I need to do that, when she can just summon them herself?”

I shook my head. “True summons, I mean. She has a couple—”

“Ah, yes, the spire runaway. No, bringing someone who isn’t even a Valian citizen adds too many additional security concerns.”

Sera seemed to snap back into focus. “Our destination…it might be the safest place for Emery right now.”

“Not my problem. You can true summon her when you get there, if that’s a concern.”

Sera nodded absently, unable or unwilling to argue. “Bring her here so she isn’t alone, at least?” I suggested.

“Right. Can do. And…hm.” Sera frowned, turning to Elora. “I have a contract with Satsuki. That’s complicated, but having a serpent with us might be worth the complexities.”

“She’s too young to offer any political assistance. If she’s willing, you can bring her here to protect your stray until we reach the spire.”

“…Fine. Corin, I’ll need more mana.”

My Arbiter attunement, at least, was still functional. I fed Sera mana while she summoned Emery and Satsuki, then hastily explained the situation. The pair both agreed to remain at the house with Cecily, which helped me feel a little better about the situation.

After a bit more discussion, Elora agreed that Researcher was enough of an asset to bring her along and wouldn’t be a security risk. We’d also consider true summoning Satsuki to our location if we needed the muscle.

We waited a few more tense minutes before Patrick and Mara finally emerged from the stairwell. Mara was disheveled and cradled the remains of her right arm under her other shoulder, as if to hide what had happened. We all knew, but that hardly mattered to the shame in her mind. When she saw Emery, she froze briefly, then found the resolve to stand by the rest of us.

“Well, that looks like everyone. Anything missing? Good. We’re leaving.”

With a snap of Elora’s fingers, the world lurched, and we were elsewhere.

***Chancellor Meltlake met us at the entrance to the train. Patrick rushed to hug her, which she accepted gladly, then turned to the rest of us.

The train station was strangely quiet, which felt like a bizarre contrast to our urgency. Not that we were the only ones at the station, of course, but there wasn’t the sort of rush that I might have expected with an emergency like a preamble to war.

This was, of course, because Valia as a whole hadn’t heard anything yet. For most people, that day was just business as usual. I had to wonder what the few ordinary folks at the train station were thinking when they saw various powerful attuned showing up at the train platform. But, being me, I didn’t actually bother to ask.

I had greater concerns at the moment either way. Chancellor Meltlake looked about as serious as I’d ever seen her. “Thank you for bringing them, Elora. I won’t keep them long.”

Elora sighed. “You wouldn’t have to delay us at all if you were coming with us.”

“You know why I can’t.”

Elora rolled her eyes, then waved a hand and walked onto the train.

I shot Chancellor Meltlake a questioning look. “She might know your reasoning, but I’m not so certain I do. If the Emerald Council is meeting, surely you have a place there?”

“I was invited, of course, but there would be a number of problems with my attendance. Valia is in an extremely vulnerable position. Tenjin’s absence was the beginning, but the battle with the Sons of Valia…” She grimaced. “The losses were great, and not merely on a personal level.”

Patrick reached out to grab Chancellor Meltlake’s hand and squeezed. “Derek is still out there. He’s alive.”

“I’m aware.” She drew in a breath. “I…should have listened to him. Been there for him. For all of you. But now, there is nothing to do but shelter what is left. I have a responsibility to my students — all of my students — and the nation as a whole. We simply cannot afford for all of our Emeralds to leave at once, and among those who remain, I am one of the most publicly known. My presence here may help forestall further attempts at breaking our morale and internal sabotage. And should an armyreach our gates,” a determined look crossed her features, “I have been known to melt a landmark or two.”

I truly hoped it would not come to that.

Not just because of the awful loss of life that would come from any battle on that scale, but because I knew that even Meltlake could not stand against an invading army and succeed.

Not when every other nation had a visage on their side.

More pieces were coming together in my mind, but there would be time to assemble them more fully when I was speaking with the others on the train.

“I suspect you’re here to do more than just say goodbye to your apprentice, then,” Sera noted. “And we have limited time. You have an agenda for us to fill at the council?”

Chancellor Meltlake nodded. “Astute as always, Miss Cadence.” She reached into a bag at her side, retrieving two envelopes. “My invitation — and my response. The Emerald Council is, as the name implies, generally restricted to Emerald-level attuned. Each Emerald is allowed a single guest, typically a retainer or family member. Non-Emeralds with invitations such as Master Cadence are rare exceptions, but also likely to be limited to a single guest.” She handed the letter to Patrick. “With these, you will be designated as my proxy. This will allow you to attend and vote in my place. You will also be allowed a guest. This should allow the four of you to all be present.”

The chancellor didn’t bother to give Researcher a glance as she mentioned the “four of us”. Clearly, Meltlake was only counting the humans. That said, I wasn’t particularly worried about Researcher getting into the tower with us; given Warren Constantine and Len’s practice of sheltering summoned monsters, Researcher would have no difficulty getting inside, even if she was denied participation in the council itself.

“You mentioned voting,” I noted. “Do I have a vote?”

“Unlikely. You are a guest of the host, not an Emerald. Unless you’ve been hiding a considerable amount of power, waiting to unveil it at the council?”

She gave me a wry grin — and, on that rare occasion, I actually got her hint.

“I think I very well might be.”

I couldn’t make myself an actual Emerald — not without blasting my body with so much mana that I’d tear my star veins to tatters. I was, however, one of the best prepared people in the world to fake it.

“And what,” Sera asked, “will we be voting for?”

Meltlake’s smile vanished as she turned to Sera. “I don’t know, Miss Cadence. And that scares me more than I can say.”

I didn’t like the sound of that in the slightest.

I wasn’t much for politics, but I knew that if we were going to be walking into one of the most politically volatile situations in my lifetime, I would need leverage if I wanted to have any influence. Pretending to be an Emerald might get me a vote, if I was willing to take the risk of being discovered, but I needed more than that. And, seeing Meltlake in front of me, I knew there was something valuable I held that I hadn’t made use of— something that might be worth a favor or two. “Chancellor Meltlake… about my invention. The one you asked me not to distribute broadly or talk about. Given the circumstances…”

She turned back to me, taking a moment to consider. “That…yes, it has value, but much greater value in the long-term, or to someone who has a strong understanding of the concept behind it. This isn’t a time to be holding back. If you think you can buy Valia some support with your invention, you can share it. But be careful. Once someone has their hands on one, it can be reverse engineered, and it’ll lose significant value. You need to approach this strategically.”

“I understand. What about—”

The sound of the train’s horn broke the flow of our conversation. It would seem that even at the behest of the Chancellor of Lorian Heights, a train would not wait forever.

“We’re out of time. Be safe, children.”

Meltlake gave Patrick one final hug. We rushed onto the train.

I knew where it would take us, but nevertheless, I couldn’t help but feel as if I was stumbling head-first into the unknown.

***I hadn’t expected to be on the cross-continental railway again so soon after our last trip. I wished I could have been excited about the prospect, but I could feel only trepidation building in my heart.

Once we were on the train, we were ushered toward a series of expensive cabins. Elora had apparently reserved multiple entire train cars,and she rapidly shuffled us toward the ones she’d selected for us.

Full-sized beds. Tapestries and paintings on the walls. A bottle of iced wine. Are those rose petals? Is this how wealthy people usually travel?I didn’t have much time to process the opulence of the first-class rooms before Elora summoned us again, this time to a car that was mostly taken up by a conference room.

“Sit,” she instructed. “I have many preparations to make and others to talk to, so this will be brief.”

We took our seats. I tried to suppress my nervousness, but I couldn’t help but fidget in my chair. I had many questions, but I didn’t have a moment to ask them before Elora began to push documents at us.

“Sign the top papers. The booklets below those are your diplomatic passports. If we should be intercepted along our path, you may need to show them. Things are in an early enough stage that diplomatic passports are still likely to be honored, if we’re lucky. If anyone attempts to board the train in a hostile fashion with a force of significant enough power that we cannot repel them, I will evacuate the people that I can. If I cannot reach you, I have also provided a map of the Unclaimed Lands with several locations marked. We have allies in a Sytennian camp here, near the Light Temple.” She pointed at a spot on the map. “If we are far enough along, however, I would advise you to go to the expedition at Pending, then make your way from there to Constantine’s tower, which is here.”

“I assume you’ve been out here before,” Sera said. “Why not just teleport us via anchor points along the route? We could be there in hours instead of days, even if you have to rest.”

“That route has been anticipated. The closest teleportation anchor points to Valia were masked or destroyed earlier this morning. Scrying attempts at several more distant anchor points have been blocked, which suggests there may be ambushes set up. While there are some anchors within my range that have not been obviously blocked, in my estimation, that suggests an even higher likelihood of a planned ambush at those locations.”

“Do they really have the resources for several ambushes that could threaten an Emerald?” I asked.

“Unlikely, but the brief disorientation after long-range teleportation may be enough for them to summon reinforcements from another area if we show up at any of them, or at least time enough to convey a message. Beyond that, I strongly suspect that our aggressors have made allianceswith factions that are active in the Unclaimed Lands, and those factions mayhave the resources to threaten us.”

“The Tails of Orochi, I presume?” Sera asked.

Elora raised an eyebrow. “You’re better informed than I might have expected, dear.”

“Just calculating. If they have an idea of who might be coming this route, my brother might be exactly the type of prize they’d be interested in.” I blinked. “Me? Because of my mark?” I knew that an Arbiter mark was valuable, but I couldn’t quite process why the Tails of Orochi would want to have anything to do with it. Descendants of the God Hydra didn’t have anyneed for attunement manipulation…did they?Sera shook her head. “In this case, it would not be the attunement they’d be interested in — at least, not predominantly. If you recall a certain swordsman’s stories, they have displayed an inordinate interest in magic swords of a particular lineage.”

“Oh.” I’d only learned about Selys-Lyann’s connections with Flowbreaker, one of the Six Sacred Swords, relatively recently. People with a specific interest in the sacred swords, like the Tails of Orochi, certainly could have that same amount of knowledge — or more.

I wonder if any of the other wielders will be at the Emerald Council?I didn’t know much about the current state of the sacred swords. Keras had told us a great deal about them, but his story had taken place about nine years ago…or more like ten, maybe, now that we were in our second year at the academy. I wasn’t sure exactly what time of year his story had happened.

I hadn’t asked what had happened to Dawnbringer because he clearly didn’t want to talk about it. My suspicion, of course, was that the sword had been broken, or that Dawnbringer had manifested a humanoid body, only to be killed in some way that Keras blamed himself for. He’d suppressed much of his own power with some kind of Artinian-style marks, and his memories along with those abilities.

Had he killed Dawn and sealed his powers and memories out of regret?Perhaps I should have asked that question directly, but he was gone now, and I didn’t know when I’d have a chance to ask him…or if he’d even be capable of answering. He’d mentioned in his discussion with Lute that there were things that he wasn’t allowed to talk about, and Lute’s familywas a part of that in some way. Perhaps the “Father” that Lute spoke of was Dawnbringer’s father as well, and she was with him?I hoped I could get some answers to that, but I didn’t know if anyone at the council would have any better information.

Sera waved in front of my face. “Venaya to Corin, we’re still talking.” “Sorry!” I shook my head, refocusing. “What do you need?”

“Elora is heading back to her cabin to focus on long range communication and intelligence gathering. She’s already filed the necessary paperwork to make certain that we’re all considered diplomatic envoys. We won’t be considered deserters for avoiding any battles while we head to the council, but we may need to head straight back, depending on how things go. You need to get your paperwork signed, then we’ll discuss more.”

I got to work on the papers, but I couldn’t keep my mind from wandering.

If we failed at the Emerald Council, countless people would die. My entire nation could fall.

I knew that responsibility didn’t fall on me alone, of course. I wasn’t the only representative from Valia, or in general. But I couldn’t help but feel the weight of the mark that shined on my right hand.

Arbiter of Katashi.

It was a title that implied a great deal of power that I didn’t actually have.

I had no way to contact Katashi, nor any real influence with him. I’d been given the mark with barely any explanation of what it implied. And, the more I thought about it, the more that began to feel deliberate.

Was he simply rewarding me for my brief service?That was almost a laughable prospect. No, there must have been a degree of calculation in his action, but only now, with war looming, had his motivations begun to appear clearer to me.

Tenjin’s disappearance. Katashi’s presence in the Serpent Spire and the subsequent closure of the gates. The weather shield falling. Mizuchi’s rampage on the city — and her assault at the Winter Ball. The internal conflicts against the Sons of Valia.

Each served to reduce Valia’s military power…and decrease trust in Valia’s government.

Saffron had spoken of using internal conflict to his own advantage, seeking to weaken the nation for the tyrant’s purposes — but what if hewasn’t the only one who had thought to use these events for his own gain?What if he was simply another barrier in someone else’s way, one that we had inadvertently removed?We went back to our private cabins, piling into the one assigned to Patrick and myself to talk. Then, I flipped open the final gift given to me by someone I desperately wished to see.

And my hand settled on the memory crystal labeled “visage”. As I removed it from the case, I found a note underneath.

Dear Corin,I’m impressed that you’ve made it this far, mastering the secret techniques I’ve taught you through all of the other crystals to reach the final lesson.

Just kidding. I’m sure you skipped ahead.

Don’t worry, I would have done the same thing.

I will warn you, though, that this one isn’t like the others. There are things in this crystal that will change your understanding of what has been going on within the Serpent Spire.

I don’t care much for warnings. I’ve never paid them much heed. Not a big believer in forbidden knowledge, either. But there are those that care very much for their illusions — and won’t take it kindly if their reality is shattered.

You can handle this. I know that, or I wouldn’t be sharing this with you.

But there are two things you must remember.

First, not everyone will believe the truth, no matter how clearly you display it to them. A comfortable fiction is often more pleasing than reality, and evidence to the contrary can breed unfathomable anger. Should you choose to watch this, that is a burden you will need to bear.

Second, know that, no matter where I am, no matter how bad things get—it.

I’m proud of you.

You’ve more than earned my respect. Whatever you face, you’ll handleAnd if you need an example of how to handle a supposedly invinciblethreat, keep watching these crystals.

Chances are, I’ve already beaten one.

-Keras Selyrian, Titles TruncatedI folded the letter in my hands, rubbed absently at my eyes, and then tucked it away where I’d found it.

Then, I turned to Mara. “I think there’s something we both need to see.” We shifted our seats so that Mara and I were next to each other. The label for this this particular crystal indicated that it could be viewed by two people at the same time. Somehow, that felt more fitting than watching itone after another.

Keras must have planned for this, too.

I explained what we were doing and let the others look over the letter. “You sure you want to see this?” Sera asked.

“You already know what we’re going to see, don’t you?” I asked her. “…I don’t know for certain, but I have my suspicions.”

I nodded. I had my own, too. And I had questions that urgently needed answers. I was tired of reacting to things without enough information — and if I had the ability to grasp a bit more of the truth, I would take that option without the slightest hint of doubt. “I’m doing it. Mara?”

“Can’t say I’ve got anythin’ better to do.” There was a hint of her old excitement there, mingled with heartbreak. That was, in my estimation, still an improvement.

Sera glanced at Patrick. “C’mon. Let’s go get something to eat. These two might be busy for a while.”

I raised an eyebrow at that, but I assumed she knew what she was talking about. I turned to Mara. “Ready?” I stretched out the crystal between us and let her set her hand on top of it.

“You bet.” She gave me a nod. “It isn’t every day you get to watch a fight with a god.”

