RECAP – ARCANE ASCENSION 1-4

Transcribed from the Verbal Report of a New Orchestra Performer

Well, I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised that you want more information on the Cadence scion, given his recent escapades. Knowledge is a currency of sorts, isn’t it? And you’re known for your love of any kind of coin.

Of course, I’m sure you know most of this already. You likely orchestrated a good bit of it — yes, organizational pun intended — yourself, especially the end of your dear little brother. Am I going to get in trouble for saying things like that?My, whatever will you do with me?No, I’m not deflecting. I’ll tell you all about Corin Cadence, if that’s what you really want to know. Much of this will have to be hearsay and speculation, you understand. I haven’t known him all that long myself, really, and he’s so absurdly introverted that I have to wonder if he’ll eventually end up as one of those crazed hermits. Maybe build himself a tower in the Unclaimed Lands, that sort of thing.

But I digress. I do that often, you’ll find, but don’t worry — it adds flavor.

You probably don’t care about his own brother disappearing when he was twelve, though Tristan would have been something fearsome if he’d managed to make it out of his Judgment. A shame about — ah, yes, of course you know he’s alive. No, no, I would have mentioned that eventually. Probably.

Anyway, his brother disappeared into the Serpent Spire when he was twelve, his family split, and his father beat the stuffing out of him for years and called it training. Shame about the diminishing quality of parenting in Valia these days. A few years from now and our families will look almost as dysfunctional as your family does, my lady.

Carrying on. So, Tristan Cadence, scion of House Cadence, vanishes, and Corin makes it his life’s goal to track his brother down and either findhim (a hilariously naïve goal that somehow ended up actually working) or bring him back to life (a considerably more reasonable goal regardless of its near-equal level of impossibility).

To that end, Corin undertook a Judgment upon his own seventeenth birthday, and things pretty much went right off the rails from there. (No, I’m not just making train metaphors because of all of your trains that I’ve robbed. That’s just a bonus.)Now, there’s something to be said for walking into a Judgment with the expectation of doing something incredible and unprecedented, but precious few of us actually pull it off. In my case, I was perfectly pleased just to survive my own Judgment, given how young I was when I took it, although admittedly getting a contract-based attunement was a significant bonus. Most of my own extraordinarily absurd accomplishments came a bit later, but not Corin — he decided to throw out the rules right from the start.

Some of that is Tristan’s fault, of course.

You see, Corin found a magic book inside the Serpent Spire during his Judgment. And that magic book allowed Tristan to covertly send Corin messages, which were, I have to say, hilariously lacking in actual utility. It’s almost like he didn’t want his dear brother to survive — but that couldn’t be right, could it?Too soon?After that, Corin stumbled upon a magic jail. Inside said magic jail were a few interesting people. One was a mostly boring Analyst from Farren Labs. She’s not important, don’t worry about her. Her charge, however, was quite important — a boy being tested for a new type of artificial attunement. One so dangerous even the visages seemingly took notice.

Now, that’s interesting, isn’t it? Sending someone like that into a foreign spire…you’d have to expect that to come across poorly.

Was Ferras trying to start a war, do you think? Surely she must have known that such attunements were being made, as eccentric as she might be. So, why allow this to happen? Was she the one playing the tune, here?Or was it you, m’lady?Ah, very well, question withdrawn. Moving on then.

The next resident of the cell block was, of course, our very good friend Keras Selyrian. You know him, I know him — virtually everyone at least knows of him at this point. Heretic, deceiver, former wielder of Dawnbringer with a frankly ludicrous number of other titles still held andothers long abandoned. A swordsman of such repute that your dearly departed brother once fled at his mere appearance on a battlefield — and, I much suspect, contrived to avoid encountering me again until Keras was conveniently off gallivanting on one of his world-saving errands.

But I digress again. There was a legendary swordsman in the jail, and Corin had no idea who he was. Hilarious, really.

So, Corin broke them all out.

Naturally, this garnered the attention of the resident visage — who was, unfortunately, not the local visage. You see, the visage responsible for the Serpent Spire — Tenjin, Visage of Inspiration — was missing. Instead, Katashi, the Visage of Justice and Judgment and all sorts of j-sounds, showed up instead. He demanded that Corin and the others hand over the boy prisoner, which I think demonstrated a remarkable level of restraint, given that Katashi could have obviously just, you know, teleported an unconscious child anywhere he wanted.

Without going into excessive detail, I can say that in a very obviously staged encounter, Keras stayed behind to hold Katashi at bay or something, which makes absolutely no sense to anyone who has any idea what visages are capable of. No, I’m not doubting that our swashbuckling hero might be able to match a visage in a fight on his good days — but after three weeks in a jail cell, he was decidedly not having one of those good days. And perhaps more importantly, Katashi didn’t have to beat Keras to achieve his goals, if preventing the escape of the other prisoners was among them.

Right, fine, I’ll stop rambling on that. I’m sure you have similar suspicions, and you can piece together the rest on your own if you feel like it.

So, Corin escapes the room with the child and the Analyst. Predictably, he’s betrayed by the Analyst, who splits off to leave the spire. Corin gets a magic sword — yes, I’m underselling that a bit, but you already know what Selys-Lyann is — and meets the Voice of the Tower (obviously his brother in a funny robe, or a projection thereof) and gets his attunement, then leaves the spire.

At this point, things are a little interesting, because he doesn’t lose his memories like most people do after a Judgment. Also, he managed to steal some of the water from the attunement fountain.

Yes, I thought you’d approve of that. An enterprising move, to be certain. You’d like him. No, wait, forget I said that. You’d be completelyapathetic about him. He’s absolutely boring and you should pay no further attention to him.

…Fine, I’ll continue.

So, Corin earns an Enchanter attunement. This, of course, angers his military-heritage-focused father, who threatens to disown him and throw the family to Sera Cadence. Sera, you see, was a descendant of a family retainer — supposedly — who Corin was raised to believe would be his own retainer someday. When Sera came home with a better attunement than Corin’s, at least from a traditionalist Valian perspective, Corin’s father decided to claim Sera was a member of the family — but not explicitly his daughter.

She obviously was, in fact, his daughter. And given that she was supposedly born only a few days after Corin…well, he was either very busy with the maids at the same time he was with his wife, or perhaps, she wasn’t, you know, actually born a few days later than he was at all. A few minutes, perhaps? You see my meaning, of course, and you’re aware of the Valian cultural stigmas relating to such children. A deception, even one that was sold to the children, makes some sense.

No, I haven’t confirmed it. Juicy as that knowledge would be in high society, I actually like the Cadences, and I didn’t want to ruin their lives by prying into it over-deeply. I’d ask you to do the same, of course, but we both know that would only encourage you.

So, Corin and Sera are shipped off to Lorian Heights, the Valian academy for freshly-attuned, and begin their education. Corin talks to a teacher named Professor Orden about his dealings in the spire, earns a mentor in the eccentric Professor Vellum, and gets hazed a bit by the dueling teacher, Professor Teft. He also is fortunate enough to have a class with then-Professor Meltlake.

Various things happen throughout the year, but the most important for your purposes is the acquisition of his staunch allies. Patrick Wayland, an old friend who became Corin’s retainer in an ill-advised attempt to court his sister. Marissa Callahan, a prodigy of punching, who is, at present, probably regretting that very specific martial focus. Jin Dalen, a scion of the East Edrian House Dalen who very specifically insists on not being a prince, but likely is descended in some way from the Unbroken Queen’s household. And then there are the boring ones like Roland and Cecily that no one really cares about.

Anyway, Corin makes friends, even if he doesn’t realize it, and then gets involved in trouble again when monsters begin attacking the school. Corin discovers Katashi has ordered the attack and, in a bout of foolish valor, goes with a group to talk to the visage. Somehow, likely tied to the strangeness in Katashi’s earlier behavior, Corin not only survives this encounter but is charged with a quest: to find the Analyst and bring her to the spire.

So, he does that, nearly dying in the process. He also obtains the Jaden Box around thenish, which is a magical item that stores objects and can, when fully charged, summon people from other locations. Yes, I know I’m oversimplifying that, because you already know what the Jaden Box is.

Katashi is impressed that Corin did the thing he wanted and gives him an Arbiter attunement, which implies that Katashi had an angle on Corin from the start. He also hands off his sword to Corin’s injured sister, which is even more suspicious, but I think I have a pretty good handle on his reason for that — which is clearer when you know that the next thing Katashi did was send them to our dear Keras Selyrian for protection.

Keras trains Corin and Marissa over the next several months, while Sera recovers from injuries sustained in the spire. Oh, and Keras also makes Patrick a delightful copy of one of the many legendary swords in his former collection.

Corin learns more about enchanting, as well as his new Arbiter attunement. Toward the end of the year, he has his first encounter with a Child of the Tyrant in Gold — ah, do you prefer vae’kes? I’ll go with that, then. Vae’kes Saffron.

Saffron apparently had agents infiltrating the Theas household, which is unsurprising, given the long history of House Theas and their magical power. When Corin outed one of his agents, Saffron showed up, killed a few people, traumatized a few others, and eventually got scared off by Keras as mentioned earlier.

After that, Corin went to the Winter Ball and fawned a bit over Jin Dalen again. Oh, I forgot to mention this, but Jin tried to betray Corin during their little mission for Katashi, but I suppose it all ended up working out okay in the end.

Well, that part did. Mizuchi, the Hero’s End, one of the children of the God Serpent, showed up at the ball. That went about as well as you’d expect. She incapacitated most of the eight-thousand-or-so people inattendance — fairly impressive for one spell, you have to admit — gave a little speech, then killed some nobles for consorting with, you guessed it, the vae’kes.

You wouldn’t happen to know anything about what she was talking about, would you, m’lady? No, of course not.

Well, dear Corin decided to intervene in Mizuchi’s rampage, as did his friends. They nearly got themselves killed, and they probably did get one of their teachers killed — poor Professor Conway — but don’t tell them I said that. And they probably saved Teft, so I suppose they’re pretty much even on surviving teachers, right?Mizuchi was, of course, far too much for a bunch of children, even with several powerful professors present as well. Meltlake put up a good fight, but…she’s not in her prime.

So, it would have gone very badly if the strange Professor Vellum hadn’t somehow used what sounds to me like Mythralian-style ritual magic to banish Mizuchi back to the Serpent Spire. Sure, it could have been an enchantment that drew from her Abjurer attunement, but…I think there was more going on with that.

I wouldn’t ask her, though. She’s dangerous. Trust me on that.

In the aftermath of that attack, Corin headed back into the Serpent Spire to try to reach his brother — and, to everyone’s surprise, actually succeeded. You see, his brother had been one of the people involved in capturing Tenjin, the original visage of the spire…and still seemingly held Tenjin captive.

Meeting with Tristan was, of course, a terrible idea for everyone involved. Mizuchi showed up and beat them badly, in spite of being vastly depowered from the last fight. Corin managed to teleport her away with a hastily brewed potion, but knowing she’d be back quickly, he had to flee the spire with his friends. His visit likely cost Tristan an eye, but at least he had personal confirmation that Tristan was alive, and I suppose that probably was worth it to him.

Less so to Tristan, I imagine.

Hm? No, I don’t think Tristan was the one pulling the strings on any of that, either. He claimed to have a backer, but no, I don’t know who that was. Wasn’t you, was it, m’lady?Yes, go ahead, laugh.

Well, moving right along. Corin escaped the spire with his friends, then they went on vacation.

“Vacation” for them was going to Caelford, where Corin studied at Farren Labs, learned what a weird creep Anabelle Farren was, and most importantly, learned quite a bit about how attunements work. This led him to discovering that with his combination of attunements, he could potentially make changes to how attunements function, move them, or that sort of thing.

Fascinating stuff, although I imagine you already have plenty of ways to do that yourself.

After that, he entered the local spire — that’s the Tiger Spire — along with his friends and Professor Meltlake. The most important thing that came out of this climb was, I suspect, giving Meltlake some renewed self-respect and, perhaps, Corin earning a new void-enchanted sword in a duel.

From there, they met up with some weird spirit copy of one of Keras’ friends, then headed to meet with another old eccentric — Warren Constantine, former Arbiter and current full-time paranoid. Warren explained more about attunements and Arbiter stuff to Corin, including the very real risks of ever allowing his attunement level to exceed Citrine.

After that, Corin traveled to the Transcendence Gateway Shrine, where he earned a magical mark. Sera earned one as well, but with different magic, focusing on density rather than transcendence.

When the vacation concluded, they headed home, and Corin made a bunch of items along the way. Mostly batteries of various magic types, which he would use to help make more magical items later in the year.

After he got back to Valia, Corin was immediately challenged to a duel by his father, because he didn’t write home enough or something. Very silly, but Corin was goaded into accepting a duel for later in the year. Foolishness on the parts of everyone involved, really.

Shortly later, Corin learned that Professor Meltlake was now the university chancellor. He also engaged in a Survival Match, where he fought and stalemated Satsuki, a young serpent from the God Serpent’s line.

He spent much of the semester on various enchanting projects, but none so important as working on learning how to modify attunements further. He was able to learn how to make entirely new attunement levels, as well as make other fundamental changes — but with more extreme risks based on how much he tried to change. For the moment, he primarily focused onadding a few minor features, like being able to turn on some higher-level functions independently. This let him use light mana before he normally could, for example.

Much of the year was soured by the presence of the Sons of Valia, a newly emerged Valian-supremacist movement. They weren’t unique in their ideology, of course — our culture is no stranger to racism, ethnic purists, and xenophobia in general — but their rapid influence of resources and strange method of cutting off attuned hands certainly got them some attention.

Corin’s interactions with them were minimal at first. As a noble himself, he wasn’t a target, but his commoner-turned-retainer, Patrick, was assaulted and saved only by Keras arriving on the scene to intervene. Corin braced for future confrontations, while helping to make sure that his friends had message-sending items and other ways to keep themselves safe if they were attacked again.

Sadly, Keras was unable to stay much beyond that point. Corin had finally managed to recharge the Jaden Box, which they used to summon Wrynn Jaden herself. After that, Keras and Jaden gave the kids some gifts, then left. Yes, I can personally confirm that Wrynn did, in fact, put the children under her protection before leaving. I imagine that complicates things for you.

No, I don’t know where Keras and Wrynn went, aside from that they supposedly were off to deal with the Sun Eater somehow. I imagine that dealing with a world-eating entity will take a while, even for them, so it’s unlikely they’ll be interfering with your plans again soon. Unless, of course, you wanted the world to be eaten.

Final exams were interesting — a simulation of the Six Years War that ended much more favorably, with Jin Dalen shooting the test version of the Edrian Emperor in the head several times. Hilarious. Wish I could have seen it.

Following the semester’s end, Corin defeated his father in the duel. I don’t know exactly how — I wasn’t one of the people there, and they were quite quiet about the details. Yes, yes, I have suspicions — I know he was working on void items and attunement modification — but I really wasn’t there.

After that, he completely ignored the social implications of fighting his father — as I’d grown to expect from Corin — and went to wake up thespirit inside Selys-Lyann. Who, as it turns out, is an amalgamation of spirits, including, yes, a fragment of your illustrious father himself. Hilarious, really. They had a fight, but Corin eventually convinced the spirit to make a contract with him.

Finally, they went on a raid to a Sons of Valia base and…well, Saffron was there. I’m sure you know the rest.

They killed Saffron, supposedly. I still have my doubts they achieved it on their own, even considering the terrible cost.

Corin himself nearly died, overusing his mana to the point where I suspect his mind was nearly broken. He probably won’t be Enchanting anything for a while. I’m shocked he could talk.

His sword’s spirit was banished, and I’m not sure what that even means.

It’s seemingly inactive, at least.

Marissa Callahan, more commonly called Mara, lost a hand, and, I suspect, much of her pride as a fighter.

And Sera Cadence? Well, she lost her life — or something like it. I’m not sure if she actually died that day, or if her brother’s spells and Seiryu’s intervention meant she was technically alive when you arrived and stepped in. Perhaps you can clear that part up for me sometime.

And…well, you already know what else was lost that day, don’t you?Hm? I suppose there were some omissions here and there, but that should cover the most important parts. You don’t really need to know about all of Sera’s summoned monsters, for instance, even if Vanniv is fantastic. If you truly wish for more detail, however, I am, of course, your servant.

Not now? Very good. Ah, as for your last question…I don’t know where Corin is now, but I imagine that wherever he is, he has to be hurting very badly. And, knowing what is on the horizon, I can only imagine his life is about to get even worse.

