CHAPTER IV – DIFFERENT TYPES OF

WOUNDS

It wasn’t much later that Sera called our little group together for a gathering. This wasn’t unusual, we met several times a day, but there was something that felt more urgent and official this time.

“What’s going on?” I asked as I sat down.

“I’ve been gathering information while we ride,” Sera explained, pulling up her blanket. “Less than I’d like, considering how much time I’ve been stuck in bed, but I’ve been getting up when I can and asking around. I think I have a better idea of what we’re dealing with, and I think it’s important to set expectations.”

“In terms of the war,” Mara asked, “or the Emerald Council?”

“Yes.” Sera said. “In terms of those. And other things. But the council should be the primary focus of this discussion. It will be the focus of my energy for some time, and likely many of yours as well.”

“Not all?” Patrick asked.

“We’re all going to have some measure of involvement, I suspect, but Mara,” Sera looked apologetic, “doesn’t have the sway we do. Not yet, at any rate.”

Mara simply shrugged. “Wasn’t expecting to.”

“You could lean into your apprenticeship to Keras,” Sera suggested, “and that would give you some leverage, but…”

“Will think on it.” Mara nodded.

“Right.” Sera turned to Patrick. “The most important thing to understand is that there will be a great deal of discourse about voting. Votes in the Emerald Council can require either a simple majority or three-fourths of the total votes available, depending on the specific nature of the issue. Most of the major subjects will require a three-quarters majority, which ishugely unlikely to be met. There are also vetoes possible on certain subjects. Effectively, this structure means that a single nation with a significant number of Emerald representatives — say, Dalenos — can block major actions from being taken.”

“Then…what’s the point?” I asked.

“The Emerald Council’s votes are more effective during peacetime, which has been the vast majority of this iteration of the council’s history. Votes are used for things that every nation can theoretically agree on, if only grudgingly. Mutual interests, like each nation dedicating some resources toward an international trade plan, or toward investments in infrastructure and technology that could benefit all parties. It’s expected that on more minor issues, votes will be traded — someone from Dalenos is convinced to vote on a subject that benefits Valia more in exchange for a vote on Dalenos-centric subject later. Things like unofficial control over elemental temples based on their geographic proximity to major nations, or anything dealing with Sytennia and Erawen.”

“How does the war play into this?” I asked. “If any votes related to the war will just be blocked by Dalenos, is there any point to the meeting?”

“Oh, there are many points. First, if Dalenos wants to be able to block things, they need to have sufficient representation at the council to form a solid voting bloc. That means Emeralds dedicated to staying at the council, rather than on the battlefield, and in large numbers.”

“But other nations have to send Emeralds to outnumber them, so isn’t that a wash?” Patrick asked.

“Keeping Emeralds off the battlefield reduces lethality. And they don’t necessarily need to match Dalenos’ numbers, if it’s three other nations — they just need to send enough to prevent a reverse ratio where Dalenos somehow has a majority.”

“This is all presuming Dalenos has no allies,” I noted. “What happens if they get Edria on their side or something?”

“We lose,” Sera said. “Which is another reason we need to be there. Deals are going to be brokered. The votes themselves are less important than many of the other impressions that are made. That doesn’t make voting irrelevant, of course. Holding voting power makes someone significant. Patrick should expect people to be courting him to trade votes on specific subjects that have nothing to do with the war. Or, perhaps things that do involve the war, but indirectly. One could, for example, expect to see a votethat involves dedicating forces to hunting down the Sun Eater’s followers. This could potentially cause delays in war logistics for Dalenos if they’re obligated to participate, and it would be a reasonable goal to pursue that they may not be able to veto or vote against as easily as something more direct. Katashi will have accounted for this, but he might allow it.” She took a breath. “There are many things I still don’t know, and any of us that have a vote should expect to make some judgment calls on possible impacts their votes could have that may not be immediately obvious.”

“Is getting more votes possible?” I asked.

“The most likely way to do that is if some of our Emeralds have to leave and decide to hand off votes to us as proxies. I’m a candidate if Elora has to leave, for example. She has others that are closer to her house, but as a God Beast Summoner, on paper, I look very much like an apprentice to her. That said, I’d prefer that she stays. I am not in the best of shape, physically or mentally, and Elora has both experience and knowledge that I lack. She’s better for the job.”

I started to say something, but she raised a hand to forestall me.

“I’m not being overly hard on myself when I say that. I’m being realistic. I may not strictly trust Elora, but she’s the closest thing we have to a leadership figure in this endeavor, and I am not in any condition to take her place. Neither are any of you. That is simply a statement of fact. What we need to do is find the best ways we can to support those of our nation who have more experience and leverage, directly or indirectly. Hopefully, we can do this in ways that play to our strengths. I’ll be talking to people, gathering information, and making backroom deals. Patrick will make friends. Corin will probably start fights with people that could wipe us off the planet with a gesture.”

“Hey, now. I’ve only done that like…” I started counting on fingers. “Five, six, seven…okay, your point is made.”

“And me?” Mara asked.

“I’m…” Sera frowned. “…still working on that.”

***I was still working on that, too. And Mary wasn’t the only one I discussed deals with on the train.

I enjoyed the diversion of trading stories with her — even if, unfortunately, she swore me to secrecy about her forehead mark. We resolved to talk again soon, next time actually focusing on action items forthe future, but I…really needed the break of just sharing with her. I think she did, too.

It was the next day that I ran into someone else that I’d shared both stories and deals with in the past—Lars Mantrake.

As I approached Lars, I saw that he was busy with another customer. It was hard to miss, given that said customer was dressed in all black, covered with an armored breastplate that appeared to be made out of bones, and wearing a crown that was currently on fire. I'm pretty sure that last part was against train safety regulations, but if the man was concerned, it didn't show in his glowing eyes.

I blinked as the strange man turned toward me briefly, then shook his head silently and reached forward, gesturing downward. A portal opened as he shifted his hand, then stepped through it, vanishing along with the portal. “Huh.”	I	stepped	over	to	eyes.	“That	was	quite	an	outfit.

Necromancer?”

“Calls ‘imself a ‘decemancer’, whatever that is. I don’t ask too many questions when someone looks like that.” He gave me a bright smile. “Now, how’s my favorite customer doing?”

“Corin Cadence! My favorite customer. Come, sit!” “Sure, but uh, let me grab food first?”

I might have forgotten to eat the day before. After Mary had interrupted my trip to the dining hall, I just kind of…didn’t try again. Oops.

“Of course, take your time. Browse! There’s an excellent selection.”

I blinked, briefly wondering if Lars was responsible for selling the overpriced train food, but…what were the odds of that?Anyway, I grabbed a meal, then sat down across from him. “I’m surprised to see you here. Something happen to the shop?”

He shook his head. “Just shut the doors for a bit. With the school semester over and the spire still shuttered, there aren’t a lot of local customers right now. So, I’m heading out to the expedition for some trade there. I don’t do it during every break, but I head out there on occasion and pick up some of the better goods they’ve stumbled upon.”

I nodded in understanding. “You used to be the quartermaster out there, right?”

“Indeed. Those were different days.” He sounded wistful, but pained. “Wouldn’t be bad to see some of those folks again.”

Even I wasn’t blind enough to ask for more specifics than that. Instead, I asked a completely different tactless question. “…Hey, you have a prosthesis, right?”

He tilted his head to the side, as if baffled by the change in subject. “Yes?”

“I, uh, one of my friends recently lost a limb, and I was wondering—” “Ah. Yes, of course.” He nodded grimly. “Not an uncommon fate withclimbers. I’m sorry about your friend.” “Thanks.”

He nodded, then continued. “I don’t sell prosthetics myself, but I can give you some recommendations. My own was a custom build by someone that…well, let’s say I can’t exactly introduce you right now. I can point you at a few good manufacturers, though, and some other options for you to look into. What’s your price range?”

“…I don’t know?”

“You’re going to want to figure that out. A good prosthesis isn’t cheap.” “I don’t suppose you think I could make one myself?”

He shrugged. “Wouldn’t wager there being good odds on you getting positive results if you’ve never tried it. It’s one thing to make a gauntlet, it’s another thing to make it move like a hand…and it’s another thing entirely to get it to move organically. You could study, but your friend might not want to wait.”

I nodded. “Throw some options at me.”

“Sure. Well, first off…I’m sure you’ve heard of Farren Labs?” I sighed.

“I might have heard of them.”

***I wrapped up the chat with Lars pretty quickly, although he did actually manage to get me to buy something for a change. I didn’t have a lot of coin on me, but what he was selling was simple and practical — adhesive- backed hooks to attach to the backs of shield sigils and similar items. While my sigils were already easy to pin onto anything, I bought a set of six of the hooks to attach to other devices, like my batteries and void emitters. They stuck onto the back of the items easily, after which I could easily hook them onto my belt or another object.

I attached a couple of the hooks immediately — one to a transference battery and one to a void emitter — and tested them on my belt.

Fortunately, they didn’t cause any immediate interference while they were inactive, but I’d have to work on adding some anti-interference enchantments to them if I wanted to use them in close proximity to other items.

After that, I went to visit Sera, both to assess her recovery and for a sanity check on my own plans. I knocked on the door to her private car and she told me to come in.

Fortunately, she was alone, reading a book while Mara and Patrick were off doing something elsewhere.

“How are you feeling?”

“Still terrible, but that’s to be expected.” She closed her book. “Do you need something?”

“Not if you’re busy or not feeling up to—”

She grimaced, forcing herself to sit up in her bed, then shifted her blankets to keep them covering her. “Just spit it out.”

“I need your opinion on if it’s too early to talk to Mara about prosthetics again.”

She gave me a look of genuine surprise. “That’s surprisingly circumspect of you. You’re learning.”

I shrugged. “I’m trying. Can’t promise I’m going to be great at…people, but I can tell how hard of a time she’s having, and…”

“Yeah, it’s a good question. You’re right to ask, but so long as you don’t blunder with it too much, I think you’re fine. We’ve already discussed the general concept a little. I’ve tried to encourage her that there are methods we can take, but she’s understandably not happy with the idea of a mechanized hand, even if it’s an advanced one.” She gave me a hard look. “Please don’t tell me you’re already working on one. You know you’re not supposed to be enchanting yet.”

I raised both hands defensively. “Not yet, not yet. But in terms of that, I think I’ve figured out a workaround…”

“Corin.” She folded her arms. “Don’t push yourself. You nearly killed yourself trying to save me. I’m intensely grateful for that, believe me, but I’d really rather you avoid killing yourself as a consequence of carelessness in your recovery window.”

“I’m not sure I actually did much. Seiryu probably did the heavy lifting there until…”

“Until you arranged a contract to revive me. I’d be dead without that even if we presume your transcendent regeneration spells did nothing, which given what I’ve gleaned from everyone’s descriptions, I find unlikely. You might have been able to stop after one or two, though.” She gave me a hint of a smile. “But I can’t fault you for worrying. Thank you, Corin.”

“…You’re welcome. And thank you for worrying about me, too. But as for my workaround…don’t worry. I’m going to wait a bit before I actually try it, and it’s comparatively low risk. Let’s worry about that later. If I get distracted, I’m going to end up leaving without talking about what I originally planned to.”

She laughed lightly, then frowned and put a hand to her chest. “Ugh.

Still…hurts.”

“Do you need anything?” I asked.

“Don’t think there’s anything that can be done while we’re on the train. When we reach the Emerald Council, though, I suspect there may be people that have the expertise I’d need. Mara, too, potentially. We can talk about that. You were thinking about talking to Farren?”

I nodded. “It’s an option. Her Advanced Armor Division specializes in solutions to things like this. That said, I also thought of a couple alternative options that I might want to run by Mara.”

“Tell me first. I don’t want to give her false hope — or push her toward a dangerous option when she isn’t physically or emotionally ready.”

I grimaced. “…You’re not going to like most of these, then.” “Just tell me.”

I nodded, finally taking a seat. “Well, obviously making her something myself is a simple one. I’ve enchanted gauntlets before, and transference can move objects. And given that I’ve recently discovered how to tie attunements to items with things like my Null-Contract Gauntlets, I might be able to figure out a way to tie it to her own mana supply and let her eventually figure out how to move the fingers more-or-less organically. Lars warned me against, it, though.”

“I’m sure he did. You’d basically have to reinvent an entire field of established research. One that undoubtedly has already solved many of the problems you’d experience.”

“Yeah.” I exhaled a breath. “And while I could do some research on what is already out there, I’m sure a lot of the detailed stuff is proprietary. Iasked Lars, and his prosthetic doesn’t even use standard Enchanting — it’s primarily an Architect-imbued item with enchantments to make it permanent. I don’t have a good way to emulate that kind of functionality; it's fundamentally different. So, I don’t have a good example to study.”

“Makes sense. Good on you for asking someone who already has a prosthetic. You’ve surprised me twice today. Keep that up and I’ll have to start looking for my real brother.”

I rolled my eyes. “Well, we do have another one, but he’s a whole other topic. I don’t suppose you have any leads on his status?”

“None.” She shook her head. “And I asked Cecily again before we left.

Nothing on her end, either.”

“Hm. Good to know. Wait. Could you ask Seiryu?”

“I’ve considered it, but I’d have to summon Seiryu to have a real conversation, and I’m not supposed to do that outside of the spire except under vanishingly rare circumstances. Saffron would have counted, but he could have simply absorbed any summoned copy of Seiryu, which is why I invoked her instead.”

“What about invoking Seiryu?”

Sera shook her head. “I can communicate with Seiryu that way, but it’s…more like sending feelings through an emotional bond while it’s active. I can sort of ask ‘yes’ or ‘no’ questions, and I’ve done that before, but I’ve been advised not to invoke Seiryu again for the time being. There’s a chance it would compound the issues my body is already going through.”

I nodded in understanding. “What about summoning Seiryu for renegotiating your contract? Isn’t that a fairly standard Summoner thing that could be a reasonable excuse for a summoning?”

“A good idea, and one that could potentially allow for more conversation. I also think that Seiryu would be interested in hearing what happened in regards to the Children of the Tyrant — she may have had some awareness while I invoked her, but once I lost consciousness, she probably didn’t have much, unless she chose to scry on us…and there are a lot of variables there. Anyway, I could probably justify a summoning — especially if you were there as an Arbiter to ask for things, too — but it’s not the right place or time. The train isn’t secure enough, not to mention the problems with summoning a giant serpent on a vehicle in motion.”

“Couldn’t you make like…a tiny Seiryu?”

She laughed. “I don’t think she’d like that much, but even if I could, the security problems would be an issue…and I doubt I could get her down to a manageable size. Even the version of her I made in our first spire trip together was ‘miniature’ by her standards.”

That was a fair point. It was easy to forget that Seiryu’s true form was nearly as large as the spire itself.

Terrifying.

“Okay. Let’s plan to do that at some point soonish — but I agree that now isn’t right. Thought, though. What about Elora’s contract with Suzaku?”

“What about her contract? Summoning Suzaku would have the same limitations.”

“Oh, sorry, I was mentally jumping back a subject. Do you think Suzaku could fix Mara’s hand? Or maybe whatever is going on with…” I gestured at her.

Sera wrinkled her nose, apparently thinking. “…Hm. I don’t know. The Vermillion Bird isn’t actually the same as a phoenix…but she does share their association with fire and life mana. I’d imagine that the true form of Suzaku would be capable of managing healing on a scale we could scarcely imagine, perhaps even resurrecting the dead…but I don’t know if a construct that Elora summoned would have any greater ability than what an attuned with comparable mana could.”

“Suzaku might have an advantage in terms of theory, or perhaps mana type availability. A combination of life and fire certainly seems like a good counter to ‘body turning into ice’.”

“Sure, a good counter if I wanted to neutralize the effect — but that effect might be the only thing that is keeping me alive.”

That was a sobering thought. “…Oh. I was seeing it as more of, uh, an unexpected side effect.”

She shrugged. “Hard to say. We don’t really know what that ‘shal’ vial meant, if anything, nor if the persistent effects of Seiryu’s aid are still necessary to keep me alive. Sheridan thinks I’m stable for now, but even they weren’t able to determine exactly what happened. They believe that Seiryu used some kind of ice and enhancement spell to stabilize me for later healing, but that it may have leaked into my spirit and shade through our connection — or due to my dying state — thus causing the persistent problem. If that’s the case, it might be a side effect that I’m still sufferingfrom it after being healed, or it might be a necessary component of my essence structure now.”

That was more than I’d heard her explain about it before, at least. “Okay. That’s…yeah, throwing fire straight at that sounds bad, even mixed with life. Suzaku might be able to identify the issue, though.”

“Sure. But it’d be wiser to at least ask Seiryu first, and to take things from there.” She drummed her fingers on the closed book. “But you’re right to start thinking ahead. I’ll talk to Elora about arranging a meeting with Suzaku when things clear up a bit, both for myself and Mara’s benefit. As the Summoner for another god beast, it wouldn’t be an unreasonable thing to ask for, but I’d certainly owe her a favor — perhaps a favor to Suzaku as well.”

“Maybe you could trade Elora a meeting with Seiryu?”

She nodded. “A logical answer, but then I’d probably owe Seiryu another favor as well, and it feels like I’m getting deeper in Seiryu’s debt by the day. I owe her a life debt, now.”

“Or a partial one, at least, given that we also needed Aayara’s intervention,” I pointed out.

“Fair, but not a distinction I necessarily care to make.” She took a breath. “Gifts. We’ll need to prepare something significant for Seiryu, then maybe for Suzaku as well.”

“A Goddess’ Tear, perhaps?”

“Not a bad thought, but given that Seiryu helped with their creation, that wouldn’t count for as much with her. Suzaku, however, would likely consider it a reasonable gift. I’ll ask Elora first, of course, but it’s a good idea.”

“How many do we have?” I asked.

“Two left in the garden, but one needs to remain there to serve as a foundation for growing more. They’re slow growing, even with all our efforts. Still, given their value…well, if we were at peace, we’d be rich beyond imagining within years.”

“Who is ‘we’ in this scenario? Are we splitting the profits on them?” I asked, raising an eyebrow.

“By that, I meant ‘everyone involved in the project’, and you count. Technically, you don’t have a share of any income from sales — that would be Sheridan, Cecily, and myself — but I wouldn’t leave you out if we start selling them. I suspect that the other two wouldn’t object if I asked to giveyou a cut in general, but for the moment, our priority is giving the first several to people we hand-select as a group. Meltlake is next, for obvious reasons.”

“Yeah, that does make sense. Okay. Hm. I could probably enchant something as another gift—”

“Not until you’re better,” Sera insisted.

“I know, I know. Or if my workaround…well, works.”

She narrowed her eyes. “You’re going to tell me before you try it.” “Fine, fine. I will. But as for my other ideas for prosthetics…”

“Go on,” Sera said. “I’ll rate them on a scale of terrible to tolerable.”

I groaned, then reached into my bag and unfurled a map of the Unclaimed Lands. “…Let’s start here.”

***It was a few hours later when I managed to pull Mara into my own room for a private talk.

“You thinkin’ about watching more of the crystals?” she asked, seeming just a little brighter than she had the day before.

“Not today. Or, er, rather, not right this very moment. I had a tough question or two for you, if this is a good time.”

She folded her arms and sat down across from me. “Can’t hit me much harder than life already has. Not with words alone, at least. What’ve you got for me?”

“I’ve been thinking about ideas for your hand.”

She froze momentarily, then shook her head and began to stand. “… Appreciate it, but I’m not…you don’t need to do anything.”

“I know. Just listen and tell me if these sound terrible, okay? Please?”

Mara hesitated, then sat back down, and said quietly. “…Don’t know why you’d rightly bother.”

I blinked. “What’s that?”

“I said, I don’t know why you’d bother. We’re not…I’m useless now.

Broken.”

“You’re not broken. You’re wounded. We’ve both taken scrapes before, often together—”

She gave a bitter laugh. “Oh, don’t think you can compare this to a scratch, Corin. I’m missing a hand.” She ground her teeth, waving her wrist at me now, rather than hiding it as she once had. “I can still feel it, you know. Pain, constant, where my hand should be.”

“That’s…” I winced. “I’m sorry. I…I don’t mean to downplay it. I know it’s bad, Mara. Really bad. But if there’s anything that I’ve learned in the last year or so, it’s that there isn’t anything we can’t handle, not if we work together.”

“I mean, ‘cept Saffron, apparently.” Tears welled at the corners of her eyes. “I…he…I couldn’t do a thing, Corin. Not a reshing thing.”

She lowered her head, sobbing openly now. I stared uselessly, knowing that an ordinary person probably would have…hugged her or something.

But I…“I’m sorry, Mara. I’m truly sorry that happened, but…it’s over.” “Not for me.”

I didn’t know what to say to that. This was going off-script, and I wasn’t good at situations like that. I almost defaulted to just showing her a memory crystal to distract her, but…that didn’t seem right, either. I didn’t even know how to shift the conversation in that direction.

“…You’re important to me.”

I said it almost without thinking. It felt like an epiphany, the kind of brilliant revelation that should have instantly fixed things in the conversation.

Unfortunately, people often didn’t react the way I felt like they should. “Oh, sure.” She gave a bitter laugh. “Now that I’m broken, I’minteresting to you.” She stood up, staring straight at me, eyes red. “Do you think that’s what I want?”

I cringed back, lifting my hands. “It’s…it isn’t like that. I just…look, do you want a new hand or not?”

She punched the wall behind her with her remaining hand, then grimaced.

“You veking bet I want a new hand,” she growled. “But I told you already, Corin. I won’t be a project for you.”

“Can you maybe, just, uh, be my friend?”

Mara froze, looking at me for a moment uncertainly. I fell silent, nervous.

Then, her expression softened. Her response was hesitant, barely beyond a whisper. “I didn’t think you thought about people as friends.”

“I…” I winced again. “I’m working on it. And I could, uh,” I laughed awkwardly, “use your help?”

She trembled, seeming to struggle with the rage that still flowed within her, then closed her eyes and forced herself to sit back down.

“…I’m sorry about your wall.”

I glanced at the wide dent in the metal, then shrugged. “You should be.

Keras would have blown out the whole wall, slacker.”

She burst into laughter, wiping at her running nose and eyes. “…Guess I better work on my technique some more. Can’t disappoint him, I…”

“We’ll both impress him next time we see him. And we will see him again.”

She looked up at me, seeming to sense the seriousness in my tone, then wiped her eyes again. “…You got a handkerchief or something I can use?”

“Uh, yeah.” I reached into my dimensional bag and tossed her one.

“…This is pink. With roses. Where did you get this?” She laughed, then blew her nose loudly into the handkerchief. “Do you have a secret boyfriend or something?”

“I honestly haven’t the slightest idea…about the answers to either of those questions, honestly.” I chuckled. “With my social skills, I could have two or three boyfriends at this point without realizing it.”

“That checks out. Maybe a girlfriend or two as well. Maybe a serpent…”

“Don’t even start. Even I noticed Satsuki’s attention was a little, uh, intense.” I groaned. “But let’s not talk about that just now. You feeling better?”

“I feel like resh, but that’s no different than the last few days, so let’s get on with it. Alright, Corin. What’s your masterful plan?”

“I have several.”

“Of course you do. Okay, hit me. Not literally, I’d hit back.” “Understood. So…”

I laid out the basic plans with the prosthetics I’d talked to Sera about — things like making one myself or talking to Farren Labs. Predictably, Mara didn’t seem enthusiastic.

When I mentioned Suzaku, though… “Do you think she could fix me?”

I could hear the fragile hope in her voice.

“Maybe. Let’s not assume anything, but if you want, Sera and I could look into it.”

“…That can’t be the type of thing that comes for free.” Mara frowned.

“We’ve discussed ways to cover it. A Goddess’ Tear, maybe, or I could enchant something.”

“That’s a lot of investment for something that isn’t for yourself, Corin.

Are you sure?”

“Absolutely certain. Even if I don’t know about this whole ‘friend’ thing, you’re still Keras’ other apprentice, and that means something to me. You’d do the same kind of thing for me, wouldn’t you?”

“I would. Without a doubt. But Sera…” Mara shook her head. “Love that girl somethin’ fierce, but she’s not going to help me for free.”

“I…she didn’t say anything about charging you when I asked her if she thought we could talk to Suzaku.”

“Course not. Because I already know the one thing that she’s going to ask for, and the answer is ‘no’.”

I processed that. “…She asked you to be her retainer?”

“No, but she’s been dancin’ around it for ages. Waiting for the right time. There isn’t going to be one. I won’t do it. Not even…” She hesitated, uncertain.

I didn’t want her to get back into a bad mental state, so I quickly jumped in. “I’m sure she won’t need that. If you’re not interested in that kind of relationship with our house, that’s not a problem. If she needs payment, or a favor, I can pay it.”

“You’re sweet, but no. She won’t want a favor from you, Corin. You wouldn’t deny her anything either way. You work for free too much. We all see that.”

“…Okay, uh, that may be fair. But…if she requires something from you, maybe it could be different. I’m sure you could do her some other favor, once you’re healed.”

“If I’m healed.” She shook her head. “I’m not convinced this will work, nor that I’d like the cost. Did you have…other options?”

“I do, but you might not like them.”

She grimaced. “Lay them out anyway.”

I did, very literally, once again breaking out my map. Then, I pointed at a particular spot. There was nothing special actually shown there, but when her eyes narrowed for a moment, I could see she understood.

“…The Spirit Gateway Shrine.”

During the first part of our train ride to Caelford, Keras had told us about when he’d first arrived on Kaldwyn — and where. And from there,he’d told us about his journey, and described the path from the Whispering Woods all the way to the location of an ancient shrine containing one of Kaldwyn’s Gateway Crystals. In his case, he’d sought it out to find an amulet connected to Dawnbringer, but the crystal had offered other possible boons.

“If you chose a Crystal Mark of Spirit as a reward for completing the shrine’s challenges, you might be able to fix your own spirit damage eventually through the use of spirit magic — or perhaps even Artinian spirit arts. But if the damage is to your shade, rather than your spirit, or both…”

“It might not be enough.” She nodded in understanding. “But I could also ask the crystal to heal me directly as a boon.”

“Absolutely. And…I was thinking…you might not need to go through the challenges at all. We could ask Len—”

Mara winced. “You don’t think I could handle the shrine…? You’re probably right, I’m useless now. I…”

“No, no!” I waved my hand frantically. “It’s not that, this is just me doing the thing I do where I try to work around a problem instead of through it. Like I do with everything. It has nothing to do with you. I might ask Len for myself, too.”

She still looked tense, but that seemed to help her settle a bit, at least. “…I s’pose that is how you tend to do things. Guess you can ask her for that, if you want to. You know ‘er. I wouldn’t feel right.”

“I mean, I wouldn’t mind asking on your behalf. And Keras spent a boon to save her life. Given what she owes him—”

“No.” Mara looked at me sternly. “We are not playing that angle with her.”

“Okay, got it. Noted. Backing off on that.” I took a breath. “So, let’s say we just went through the shrine ourselves. We’re not limited to doing it solo, I don’t think — I can check on how that’s supposed to work, but even Keras went through with Reika and Dawn accompanying him — and we aren’t there to earn a medallion. So, maybe we could just build a strong team and each earn a boon. It’d be a good use of our time. I’d like to see if the crystal can help improve my spirit magic, or maybe help me sort out what happened to Thorn. And a powerful and ancient sentient gateway to the spirit plane…I can’t think of a much better healer for you and Sera.”

“Aside from maybe the shade crystal, which might be a better fix.”

“Right.” I nodded. “I thought about that, too. The shade crystal presents a couple potential options. First, the shade crystal might be able to fix things by itself, if most of the damage is shade-side.”

“That does sound ideal. But I take it that if the damage is more widespread, it might not work?”

I nodded. “Right. In those cases, I know of two options. The first thing to ask for would be a crystal mark, similar to my transcendence mark. That would give you access to shade mana directly, which you could use to fix the shade part of the problem. At least in theory.”

“And the other?” she asked.

“A shade weave. It’s something I learned about in Alternate Mana Sources class. They’re basically ways to force the shade into a specific configuration, typically by bonding mana to a part of the shade. Advanced essence sorcerers on Dania use them for all sorts of weird stuff, like growing claws or gills, or just improving existing physical traits.”

She blinked. “That sounds pretty perfect. Why aren’t we just going for that?”

“Shade weaves need to be connected to a Dianis Point to work. And in your case…”

She sighed. “The appropriate Dianis Point would have been in my hand, which is gone. Right. Could…the shrine rebuild the Dianis Point?”

“Probably not. But we should keep it in mind as a tertiary option if all else fails. That said, we have a bigger problem.”

She raised an eyebrow. “Which is?”

“I can’t find the location for it in any of my books. I could do more research on it during the Emerald Council, though, or ask people there for information.”

“…Oh. I suppose you could. But don’t ask for favors on my behalf. At least, not before asking me first?”

I nodded. “That’s fine. Another thought, though — we might not need any outside help, as long as I can find the right documentation, or some people with other attunements to look at.”

Mara crossed her arms. “You’re not going to turn me into one of your magical experiments, are you?”

“Only if you want me to. And it’s not too far from what I’ve already done.”

“What are you thinking?” Mara gave me a skeptical look.

“If I can find people with the right attunements to copy off of, I could potentially store memories of what their attunement functions look like. Specifically, the functions for granting spirit and shade mana. I might actually be able to cobble something together for spirit mana right now, since I have items that use it, but the sub-glyphs my items use aren’t identical to the formatting for attunements, so…it’d take time, and it might be error-prone. It’s possible they don’t actually use the same types of spirit mana, since subtypes exist. I wouldn’t want to—”

“I get it. Basically, you copy the sub-glyphs off of a Soulblade or a Conjurer, then…put those in my Guardian attunement?”

“That’s the idea, yeah. Obviously, there are risks—” “It’s fine,” she said immediately.

I stared for a moment. I’d expected that one to take a little more convincing. “Really?”

“I mean, what’s the worst that could happen? You kill me? I’ve known that might happen since you started playing with enchanting magic swords in the house.”

“Hey, I haven’t blown up the house once!” I paused, considering. “Unless you count retreating to the house while being pursued, which was eminently reasonable, and Elora is the one who teleported us, and—”

“Corin. It’s fine. Allow me a little bit of dark humor, yeah? I trust you. And…as much as I don’t want to ask for help in general, I’m much happier to let you do something like that than to ask favors from a stranger. Making a change like that only takes seconds of effort for you, yeah? Like flipping a switch?”

“It’s…not quite that easy. I mean, the eventual resulting part is, but it does take a little bit of research time first. Basically, I’d need to be able to look at someone’s attunement, find the relevant part, then have Researcher help me make a memory crystal. Once I have the memory, yeah, it’s trivial. I basically look at your attunement’s sub-glyphs and add a section at each level we want that contains a new mana type. If you want, I can make a new level for it, so we can turn it off at any point if it’s unsafe, or I could throw on a timer, or…”

“We can work on the logistics later. But…you’d still need outside help, yeah? To get someone to let you look at their attunement?”

“Maybe. Not necessarily.” I needed to be careful here, given that she didn’t want me to pull any favors for her. “Constantine might have booksthat I haven’t seen yet with the specific mana compositions I need. Or, more likely, Len might just be able to tell me without any looking at attunements needed. Yes, that would require some degree of interaction with other people, but it’s zero trouble. And I absolutely would want this information for myself regardless of if you need it. I’d be thrilled to build spirit mana into my own attunement, too.”

“Doesn’t your gauntlet already do that?”

“Sort of. Like I said earlier, I don’t know if attunements use the same composition my gauntlet does, and the functions don’t quite work the same way. I could use my gauntlet as a foundation for building a new attunement function, but it would require some extrapolation work. I might do it if I can’t get the right info elsewhere, but I don’t see any reason to redo work others have already completed, especially when my own work may end up being imperfect.”

“That’s surprising, given how much you tend to overcomplicate simple tasks.”

I snorted. “You’re not wrong, but in this case, my paranoia about making mistakes is more important than my instinct to overcomplicate things.”

“Heh. At least you’re learning. Okay.” She exhaled a deep breath. “I… think I could be okay with what you’re talking about. You’ve…put a lot of thought into this, haven’t you?”

I tried not to look too embarrassed. “I…might not have stopped thinking about it. It’s hard to stop thinking about, well, anything, once I have something on my mind.”

“Yeah…that sounds like you. Okay.” She wiped at her eyes with her sleeve again, but she seemed more focused now. “I’ll try your attunement tweaks if you think they’d help, but I doubt that’ll solve things directly. Be a long time before I could heal myself with magic I don’t understand. But… I can’t say I hate the idea of earning my own healing from a shrine. Or…if I can’t repair my hand…” She extended her right arm outward, then I saw a shimmer in her aura, shifting to form the familiar form of a blade — then contracting into a ball shape. “Can’t do fingers yet. But maybe…with the right kind of magic…I might be able to grab my victory in another way.”

