CHAPTER III – PROCESSING WITH HELP

The memory crystal’s vision went black, but that did not mark an ending. My eyes didn’t open. I felt a moment of panic before I heard a voice in the blackness.

“Don’t mind the dark, Corin. It’s the only way I could make this work.” Keras was speaking, but I still couldn’t see him or anything at all.

What’s happening?“If this is working right, you’re probably wondering what’s happening. It’s actually very simple — this is a more advanced memory crystal than the others, containing multiple distinct memories and set up to show them in a set sequence. You’re not seeing anything because I’m not seeing anything right now. It’s pitch black, and it’s likely something is going to try to eat me soon. The Void Gateway Shrine is like that. As awkward as this is for both of us, it’s the only way I could record a message securely.”

I heard him sigh.

“Enough preamble. There’s a lot to explain. You aren’t going to be able to share this with your friends directly, and I know that’s going to put a great burden on you. You can share the crystal if you think it’s wise, but… I’m going to warn you that I’m going to share some of that extra dangerous information with you. The kind that is likely to get you into trouble, just for knowing it. You can exit the memory now, if you want to, just by thinking the word ‘exit’ strongly…but you’re not going to do that, are you?”

He laughed.

“Of course not. That’s not who you are. Now, let me tell you a story…”

***My eyes fluttered open. My breathing was heavy as I processed what I’d just seen.

Mara and I exchanged glances.

“He knew…” Mara whispered. “He saw…but…” She pulled away, shuddering suddenly.

I reached out on instinct, then pulled away before touching her, my usual touch aversion taking hold with too much strength to resist. Instead, I shifted the crystal back into the box at my side, turning to Mara. “We can’t talk about this. What we just saw, it would ruin everything if…”

Mara’s shoulders slumped. “Thinkin’ I’m not sure I care about ruinin’ long-laid plans so much right now. He could have found a way, he could have…”

Seeing her expression of hurt, I didn’t know what to say, so I settled with a basic platitude. “I’m sorry.”

She scoffed. “Not your fault.”

“It was more of a sympathetic sorry than an apology.” “Ah. Sure. S’pose this must have…been hard on you, too.”

I wasn’t really feeling what she was feeling, I didn’t think. She was still emotionally raw from the catastrophic battle with Saffron…and while we both felt abandoned when Keras left, it clearly had affected her differently. “I…yeah, but…I’m okay, I think. Do you need anything?”

“I…I don’t know. I just don’t know.” We were silent for a time.

“We should show the others,” I finally said. “They’d want to see it.”

“Wouldn’t dream of keepin’ somethin’ this important from anyone.” The implication in her statement was obvious. “Not that I don’t understand the risks, all the things he was worryin’ ‘bout. This is just…ugh.”

I didn’t know what to say to that, so I simply stood up, patted the seat next to her, and went to find the others.

I shared the crystal with Sera and Patrick next. Sera was already aware of much of what the crystal contained, for reasons that will be clearer later. Patrick…Patrick did not take it well.

Sera had to calm him when his eyes opened, immediately putting a hand on his shoulder. “That sure was some fight, right?”

“…Fight. Yeah, of…of course. But the end—”

“I’m sure he couldn’t show us everything he wanted to,” Sera said. “Memory crystals really aren’t very reliable, you know. It’s a shame. I think this one may already be breaking down, likely because of his aura.”

…Not the approach I would have expected.

Sera passed the crystal back to me. Based on her phrasing, I wondered if she actually wanted me to subtly break it at some point to make sure no one else could watch it, but I wasn’t going to make that leap without something clearer.

“Mara is feeling a bit…lonely,” I explained. “Seeing Keras again had a big impact on her. Maybe you could spend some time with her, get her mind off it?”

“Of course.” Sera nodded. “That sounds like a good idea, doesn’t it, Patrick?”

“R…right.”

I’d never seen Patrick look quite as conflicted as he did in that moment.

Maybe it was a bad idea to show that to him. He…he’s always been much more religious. He might not believe what Keras was saying, but either way, the implications have to bother him.

I…probably should talk to him about his faith at some point, but… Maybe later.

We headed back to find Mara curled up into a ball across two chairs.

She didn’t turn us away, though.

“Hey.” Sera sat down at Mara’s side, resting a hand on Mara’s back. “It’s going to be okay.”

Seeing what I’d just seen…I found that a little hard to believe.

***I watched the crystal again and again. Learning the details of the fight with Katashi could be important, but the second part was more so.

It gave me a great deal to think about and plan around, moving forward.

Keras was in complete darkness for the second section, but his voice was unchanged. It was…difficult to hear him talking in this context, while he was so far away. I wished he was with us.

Things seemed a lot simpler when he was around. Safer. But there was nothing simple about what he was telling us.

“Okay, that’s enough time to let you escape. Let’s begin, then, shall we? I wish I could have simply talked to you more directly sooner. You deserve answers, and I loathe the way I’ve had to dodge and deflect your questions. I suppose I should have more respect for what Tarren was doing now, but no, he’s still infuriating. I can only hope that by sharing all of this with you now, you’ll understand the necessity for my earlier silence.”

The first time I’d heard that message, I hadn’t been sure what he was talking about, exactly — Keras had been evasive on certain subjects, of course, but he’d been pretty clear about his reasoning when he wouldn’t share.

…That’s what I’d thought, anyway.

“For what it’s worth, I’ve been planning to share this for some time. If you’re seeing this memory at all, it means that I’ve succeeded in some ways and failed in others. Let me lay some things out. So, what am I doing here, and why?”

He paused, taking a breath.

“As I alluded to earlier, this is the Void Gateway Shrine in the Unclaimed Lands. I’m here during our trip to Caelford — I took a bit of a detour while the rest of you have been off on your own adventure. I’m not here for a boon, although I’ll likely work my way through for one regardless — it can’t hurt. No, I’m here because it’s one of the few places on Kaldwyn where I’m reasonably confident that I won’t be overheard. I’m talking to myself in utter darkness because I know that Researcher can make a memory crystal of it later, one that won’t look overly suspicious when you access it. This is, unfortunately, a necessity — anything I say in your presence has a high probability of being overheard, and I need to explain some important things.”

And the mask isn’t good enough, apparently.

“You’re probably wondering about the Mask of Kishor at this point. Ordinarily, that would prevent virtually any form of divination from observing me. Unfortunately, I’m working against a particularly canny opponent — one who was wise enough to put me in close proximity to Ceris, the Song of Harmony, a fellow artifact of Rendalir. I don’t know if I’ve had a chance to talk to you about Ceris’ properties in detail by the time of this message, but I hope that I’ve at least had a chance to imply that the sword’s aura nullifies many forms of stealth and detection-blocking abilities. It doesn’t disable the mask entirely — and I can conceal myself without the mask, to a limited degree — but even with combining my abilities with the mask, there’s enough of a vulnerability that someone with Katashi’s resources can potentially watch me. Katashi could observe me even without Ceris’ presence, but I suspect it took work on his part, and he couldn’t afford to do that continuously. With Ceris in my presence, he’s been able to have his servants monitoring me continuously.”

Most of that wasn’t terribly surprising. I knew Katashi had to be keeping an eye on Keras somehow — he’d been able to teleport me directly to Keras after my second journey into the Serpent Spire, after all.

Watching him continuously didn’t seem all that surprising, either. Keras was objectively dangerous, and if the previous memory demonstrated anything, it was that he was potentially deadly even to a visage. I could understand the necessity for monitoring someone who posed that kind of threat.

But Ceris…Keras had mentioned that it could nullify certain stealth and concealment abilities, but I didn’t realize that included his mask. That left my mind spinning in several directions, but I refocused after Keras took a breath and spoke again.

“My strong suspicion is that Katashi’s original intent for Ceris was for Sera to trade it to me. That would have met multiple goals for him at once. I would have been obligated to help Sera with something in turn, likely her ailment, and that would have kept me busy. The sword itself would have made me easier to observe. And Katashi is no doubt aware that Ceris was originally forged from the heart of Rendalir, designed as a final weapon to be used against the Sun Eater. The Sun Eater is closing in on this world. Katashi likely hoped that I would take the weapon, then leave to combat the Sun Eater’s generals as they arrive on this world, and perhaps the Sun Eater himself. If I succeeded in defeating the Sun Eater, a threat to the world would be averted. If I failed, at least he would have removed me as a problem.”

Keras gave a bitter laugh. “These sorts of machinations are sadly common among the powerful. There are shockingly few exceptions. If people were more willing to work together…well, I suppose Ishy would be out of a job, but we’d be a lot shorter on world-ending threats. I wish I could have simply told you about my suspicions, but the moment that I voiced them directly, Katashi would have known through his agents, and likely adjusted his plans further. To get ahead of him, I need to work in ways he can’t watch. To that end, I have been working with Sera for quite some time.”

That was the part that really threw me, the first time I’d heard it, and I still wasn’t sure what to make of it. There were obvious signs, in retrospect, but it still startled me. I would have blinked if I could have, but my body was not my own.

“Under the guise of negotiating for Ceris, Sera and I have been gradually working on establishing a spirit bond between the two of us. Due to…previous experiences with spirit bonds, and the risks involved, we needed to work slowly. A full Summoner-style contract was too dangerous, both due to the damage to Sera’s attunement and her mana levels being insufficient. Instead, we utilized a bond similar to what I originally formed with Dawnbringer, which allowed for telepathic communication. We did this knowing we would be observed, but the rationale for it was plausible— Sera eventually wanted a full Summoner contract with me, and a spirit bond would be an intermediary step to test the safety of such a bond while her attunement was weak.”

My mind flashed to overhearing Keras deny Sera something, claiming it was “unsafe” until she was at least Sunstone-level. I’d considered the possibility that was about a Summoner contract, but I hadn’t thought about an intermediary step being taken in the meantime. I knew that Keras could make bonds with others — he’d managed to make one with Diamantine almost instantly during his battle with Akadi during the Sacred Sword Tournament — but I hadn’t thought about him being able to apply that to humans.

“I obviously considered spirit bonding with everyone else for telepathy, too. There were two main issues with that. First, it would have been more dangerous for anyone else. Sera’s attunement functions extremely similarly to spirit bonding and has built-in functions that help to protect her from dangerous mana flowing from outside sources. And second, Sera had the most plausible reason for pursuing a bond of that kind with me. If Katashi’s followers have been watching her closely, they’d know her habit of trying to form bonds with any powerful entity that she came across — forming a bond with me wouldn’t seem any different from her standard habits.”

That all made sense, even if it did mean that I felt a little…left out.

Mara must feel even worse about it, I realized. Unless she knew…but I doubt it.

“Sera and I discussed if there was any way for her to communicate these things to the rest of you even if I could not, but she’s even easier to observe than I am, and I’m confident Katashi’s followers were keeping an eye on all of us. She’s been pushing for communication enchantments, and we’ve discussed the idea of using those to share this type of information, but we suspect even that type of communication may be monitored and intercepted.

Ideally, we wanted to find a way to establish a telepathic network to communicate what we’re doing with everyone, but it isn’t that simple. Perhaps we’ll manage that, but if you’re seeing this, we’ve likely abandoned that plan or put it on hold in favor of other things — and thus, this memory crystal, recorded in a region absolutely saturated in void. Since Sera and Ceris are not with me, my hope is that between the power of the Void Gateway Crystal and my mask, I am currently in one of very few areas that is beyond Katashi’s observation.”

Keras exhaled. “For what it’s worth, I’m sorry I’ve had to take these extreme precautions. The stakes here are simply too great to allow for errors. I hope that when I share more with you, you’ll understand why. So, let’s get into what we really need to talk about — the visages. And, without hyperbole, the fate of the world.”

As dramatic as that line was, he didn’t sound like he was exaggerating for effect — he sounded…tired. Very tired.

He paused a moment, seeming to struggle to find the right words to continue. “When I first came to this continent, I sought the help of Selys to handle an existential threat to our world. I discovered that I had been deliberately sent on a false quest and that Selys was beyond my reach at that time. I left, returning only after searching the world for other solutions and watching the Sun Eater’s influence expanding more rapidly than I could combat on my own. Again, I sought Selys, but found myself turned aside by the very entities that were supposedly the inheritors of her will. I fought Katashi, met you, and fought through the Tiger Spire. I already knew that things on this continent were amiss, but when I reached the fiftieth floor of the Tiger Spire, I saw how far things had spiraled beyond the knowledge of the public.

“I didn’t find Ferras on the fiftieth floor of the spire, Corin. I found Kerivas, the Visage of Law.”

I focused again, more interested in this part of the conversation, in spite of having heard it before.

A second visage in the wrong spire? I’d known that Ferras was “unavailable” from when I tried to use my Petitioner’s Coin at the Tiger Spire, but…I’d thought she was just…busy, or something. She was eccentric, often known for wandering throughout Caelford in mortal guise. Perhaps that was all that was happening, but…“I’ll just lay things out for you directly — Kerivas told me what I believe to be the truth. The visages will not allow me to reach Selys because they do not want her to know the events that are transpiring on Kaldwyn. They don’t want her to know that a faction of the visages is attempting to stage a coup, breaking the long-standing traditions of non-intervention in the lands of the others. I do not believe Katashi was the hand that brought Tenjin low, nor Tristan’s mysterious sponsor. I do believe that he saw an opportunity — one likely created by Wydd, though that part I remain uncertain about — and began to plan his conquest as soon as Tenjin was captured. He never intended for Tenjin to be rescued. That would, in fact, be antithetical to his plans — instead, he made the motions of pushing for a rescue, while isolating the Serpent Spire from any outside intervention that might allow Tenjin to be freed.”

I felt a now-familiar pang of embarrassment and shame.

If that was true…if control of the Serpent Spire and Valia were his plans all along…We’d all been played, hadn’t we?“For what it’s worth,” Keras continued, “I’m sure others figured this out and began to make plans. Unfortunately, at least some of those people were among those that Katashi ordered Mizuchi to eliminate. It’s possible that Mizuchi was telling the truth about those people being allied with a servant of the Tyrant in Gold, of course. If they’d figured out that another visage was responsible for keeping Tenjin hostage, a Child of the Tyrant might have been their only hope at finding someone powerful enough to facilitate a rescue. I doubt Saffron would have ever actually helped rescue Tenjin, but it’s plausible that some of the people who were killed at the Winter Ball actually believed that.”

Does…Meltlake know? I wished I could ask her immediately after the vision, but there was no way to do so. If not, I need to find a way to tell her. Maybe just…show her this crystal? When will I have the chance to do that?That was, of course, assuming that Keras was correct in his assumptions. I couldn’t take anything someone told me about events on this scale at face value — he’d told me that time and time again himself. And if this crystal proved anything, there were angles that none of us had been able to anticipate without gathering more information. Even if Keras was being completely honest with me in this memory, his assumptions could have been flawed.

…But much of what he was saying made sense.

Keras continued his explanation. “As for Kerivas, she cannot be counted as an ally, but I would not consider her an enemy, either. She claims she doesn’t know where Ferras is. I think that might be true. Essentially, she’s being opportunistic in the same way that Katashi is, but for taking control over Caelford rather than Valia. She speaks of this purely in pragmatic terms, claiming that someone must watch over Caelford in Ferras’ absence, else Katashi will simply conquer them as soon as his control over Valia is complete. Perhaps that is true, and to her credit, she has not closed off access to the spire or prevented searches for Ferras by the people of Caelford who are aware of Ferras’ absence…but I can’t help but see another would-be conqueror, hoping to see Edria’s power expand even further across the continent.”

Wonderful. That means the most obvious allies to Valia will have their own concerns during the impending invasion — and potentially Edrian influence to prevent them from interceding.

“If I thought I could resolve this simply by finding Ferras or freeing Tenjin,” Keras explained, “I’d pursue that with all of my strength. But I still do not know who the puppet master behind Tenjin’s initial disappearance was, nor more than a few scattered hints about Ferras vanishing. Investigation into political scheming has never been my strength. I’m much more proficient at direct action…which is, of course, why Katashi has been attempting to deflect me this entire time. And I’ve been forced to let him believe that he’s succeeded.”

I still wasn’t entirely sure what that meant, but I had some better ideas after considering it.

If he’s planning to come back, likely via Sera summoning him at some integral time, that’s…I mean, it’s good news, but doesn’t that derail his entire plan regarding the Sun Eater?Maybe if he’s moving somewhere in the Seventh Spire with Wrynn, the idea is that even if Sera summons him to wherever we are, Wrynn can just summon him back a few hours later using the Jaden Box? If she has some way of charging it herself to remove the six-month waiting period, that would solve a lot of the potential logistical issues there.

But is there something else I’m missing? And…is that even a good plan? Even if he can beat Katashi, which is…well, it’s a “maybe”…didn’tKeras say that killing a visage could make them explode in a continent-destroying blast? What’s his plan for that? His typical non-violent takedowns don’t seem like they’d have any use against a visage.

Does he have a tool I’m not aware of? Another weapon, a technique?There was too much that I wasn’t aware of, even with all of what he was telling me.

“I don’t know when you’re going to be watching this crystal, but I can say this — I’m not abandoning you. I may need to leave for a time to give Katashi the impression that he’s successfully removed me as a threat, and I don’t know how long it will take for me to return. At a minimum, I will likely need to find someone worthy to carry Ceris against the Sun Eater. This could take a significant time — maybe months, but more likely years. I wish I could be more certain. The world’s safety must be my highest priority…but I won’t be gone forever. And no matter how many layers Katashi has to his plans, I’ve already shown you something important.

“He’s not invincible. Not to me.”

I heard a rustling sound. Movement.

“Well, it seems like something has finally decided to see if I make a good snack. And this seems a suitably dramatic point to end my message. So, Corin — remember this. Things may be difficult, but even in the darkest moments…”

I heard the sound of metal shifting.

“We can make our own light. Silver Dawn.” My vision flooded with blinding brilliance— And the memory ended.

***It was hours later that we finally found a way to talk about elements of the situation, back in a sleeping car. Sera, of course, was the one who opened the discussion.

“I’ve been thinking about what Elora and Meltlake told us earlier, and I believe I have a clearer understanding of what we’ll be dealing with at the Emerald Council. Our earlier notions about the invasion were predicated on an idea of repetition of the Six Years War, but that’s not what is happening here.”

Patrick leaned forward in his chair. “If it isn’t that, then what are we dealing with?”

“A different nation.” I exhaled a long breath. “It’s like Sera said earlier— it’s not Edria we need to be worried about. It’s Dalenos. It’s always beenDalenos.”

Patrick blanched. “But…that doesn’t make sense.”

I caught a look from Sera and, for once, I think I read it correctly.

I need to be a little performative here. Pretend I’m just figuring this out, in case we’re still being watched. Going to be strange laying out things that Keras just told us like they’re new ideas, but…“…Why?” I asked absently. “What would their motivation be? We’re allies! And Dalenos…they’re people of faith. They wouldn’t break our treaties, would they?”

“That’s the funny thing about faith,” Sera said, sitting across from us. “It’s only as good as the person you put it in.”

Patrick gave her a wounded look. “That’s…but Dalenos listens directly to Katashi. He’s the ultimate authority there. They wouldn’t go to war without his order, would they?”

“That,” Sera explained, “is precisely what they’re doing.” We went silent for a moment, processing.

“…But…” Patrick whispered. “…He…why? He’s…he’s the Visage of Justice. Have we truly fallen so far that he would…”

“That will be the excuse, yes.” Sera shivered, pulling up her blankets further. “That Valia has fallen into unprecedented corruption. That we betrayed our own visage, turning to the Tyrant in Gold for power. Mizuchi said as much when she attacked the ball.”

“But…we…we stopped that. We…I…killed…”

“Yes, we killed Saffron. That was probably convenient, given that Saffron was likely one of the only people in Valia powerful enough to pose a problem to a visage. Not that Katashi would have had any difficulty fighting a fledgling vae’kes, of course. But if Katashi just went in there and obliterated Saffron, someone like Aayara might have stepped in, which would have been trouble. And, as an added bonus, we lost an Emerald in the process of fighting Saffron! We have,” Sera laughed bitterly, “done our invaders a great service.”

“You think this was his plan from the start.” It wasn’t a question. — I was making a statement.

Sera nodded vehemently. “Or, at a minimum, from shortly after Tenjin’s disappearance. I don’t know if Katashi orchestrated his brother’s fall, but he chose to take advantage of it to expand his reach. I can’t believe it would be possible for anyone to hide from a visage’s reach for this long — not unlessKatashi was letting him stay that way. Even if we entertain the possibility that Katashi couldn’t get into wherever Tenjin is located with several months of effort, all he would have needed to do was make one of his empty promises to Keras. Our dear Keras would have broken through any defenses immediately if he was offered a lead on his friends — or told that there were children being held prisoner inside, or whatever.”

“Careful.” Mara sat up a hint straighter for the first time in days. “Might be that I’m a little pissed at Keras for walkin’ out when we need him, but he hasn’t earned that kind of disrespect. Your brother wouldn’t be here if Keras hadn’t stepped in the first time Saffron showed his ugly mug.”

“…A valid point.” Sera raised her hands in a defensive gesture. “And I meant no insult. Apologies. But there is one indisputable fact here — Katashi had access to Keras and a position to ask for a favor. And, even if we grant that Katashi didn’t know where Tristan was until our battle with Mizuchi — which I very sincerely doubt — he certainly knew at that point. It would have been a trivial effort at that point to pay Keras a visit and ask him to break down a door, then release him from service. Katashi never did that.”

“We don’t know that Katashi didn’t break down the door on his own — we haven’t heard from Tristan in a while,” Patrick noted.

My heart sank a little at that.

“True,” Sera allowed, “but if he did, where is Tenjin? Would he not have been returned to us by now if Katashi willed it so?”

“…What if Tenjin is dead?” I asked.

Sera shrugged. “Then, if Katashi found the body, perhaps he could have resurrected him. I don’t know if the visages are capable of resurrection. If they’re not, however, he certainly would have had the grounds for some sort of immediate demonstration of revenge in the aftermath. No such event occurred. The spire remains locked. No, Katashi has been taking his time with this, allowing our nation to slowly deteriorate. It is the only thing that makes sense.”

“With what motive?” I asked. “Let’s say he takes over Valia. Gets an extra tower for Dalenos. That’s expanded influence, sure, but what’s the end goal?”

“That,” Sera admitted, “I’m still working out.”

***The mood over the next few days was somber. With my permission, Mara watched the crystal again…more times than may have been healthy.

After a brief discussion and Sera’s insistence, we shared the crystal with Elora Theas as well.

“How quaint,” Elora said as she returned it to me. “Thank you for the entertainment.”

If she was shocked by anything in there, I had no idea — her response was just as playful and inscrutable as usual.

Elora remained on the train with us, but she was busy with meetings for much of the rest of the trip. I had to wonder if we’d caused some of those meetings by showing her the crystal. Sheridan had remained behind in Valia, much to my dismay — they were still treating too many wounded to come along. Elora’s guest was her cousin, Alexander Theas, a dual-attuned who Keras had spoken of as one of the strongest combatants in the Sacred Sword Tournament ten years earlier. Though his auras both showed Citrine level at a glance, I suspected at least one of them was at Emerald level, and that he was simply planning to unveil his strength at the gathering. There were other House Theas retainers present on the train as well, and I suspected some of them would serve as Elora and Alexander’s “actual” guests once Alexander had proven his Emerald status.

There were likely others on the train that were headed for our destination, but I wasn’t certain about any of them. I looked a few times to see if Lute was present, but I didn’t find any sign of him.

I did see two familiar faces, though — Mary Hawthorne and Vermillion Rose.

Could Mary or Vermillion already be Emeralds?I doubted it, but I wouldn’t have been surprised if they had tricks to inflate their apparent power, other reasons for attending, or possibly a proxy invitation like Patrick’s.

Figuring out what they were there for would have been useful. There was something else, too. Whenever I saw Vermillion, I thought I felt Selys- Lyann stirring at my side, just a tiny bit, and a feeling of…recognition? It was the closest thing I’d felt to Thorn waking up since the fight with Saffron, but whatever it was, simply being around Vermillion wasn’t enough to complete the process.

I considered talking to them, but I decided against it for the moment. I didn’t know enough about their motivations to be sure about how much Ishould say to them. I hoped to approach them with Sera, but her condition seemed to be worsening on the train, and I didn’t want to bother her. I hoped she’d recover by the end of the train ride, both due to my general concerns about her health and because I hoped for her assistance in figuring out how to deal with Mary.

Mary came to me first. She found me walking to the dining car, waving a hand to get my attention. She was dressed in long white robes that I would have characterized as some kind of priestly outfit, looking loosely Artinian in style. Her signature longbow was missing, but she was wearing the kind of wrist guards I usually saw archers wear, so I suspected she had it stored in an extra dimensional space of some kind. “Corin. Can I call you Corin?”

I blinked. “Sure. Not big on formality. Uh, can I call you Mary?”

“Of course!” She brightened. “I know we haven’t really talked much outside of class, but Elora mentioned you were involved with some things, and…is there somewhere private you’d be comfortable talking?”

I wasn’t sure quite what she wanted to discuss, but if Elora had pointed her at me, I supposed it was probably worth exploring. The paranoid side of my mind always screamed about going off alone anywhere with anyone I didn’t know, but I was neither weak nor isolated. I had communication items handy, and while I wasn’t supposed to be using my Enchanter attunement for an unspecified period of time, I still had plenty of other tricks.

“We can go back to my sleeping car for a bit, I think Patrick is out with the others right now.”

“Wonderful. Lead the way.”

She followed me back to my room, and I gestured for her to sit. Then, recalling her mention of privacy, I began to extract my void emitters from my dimensional bag and set them up around the room.

“What do those do?”

I blinked again. “Oh. I forgot that I hadn’t explained, sorry. Void emitters. They’re useful for disrupting magic in general, but at the moment, I’m primarily using them to block anything that might be observing us. I have some pre-fabricated enchanted items for divination and teleportation blocking already set up on the walls,” I gestured, “but you asked for privacy, and I wasn’t sure if those would be sufficient for your standards, so…”

She gave me a warm smile. “I just meant a place without other people, Corin. That said, this is a sensitive matter, so I think you’re wise to take some precautions.”

I felt a little abashed, but her second statement was enough to save me from crippling embarrassment.

…And even knowing she hadn’t meant magical security, I still felt like what I had on-hand was insufficient. Normally, I would have etched runes into the walls, but I really needed to avoid using my attunement while I was recovering. So, I was stuck with using what I already had in my bag. Using batteries to charge enchantments would have been lower strain than using my Enchanter mana directly, but I still didn’t want to risk it. I…didn’t like remembering how I’d felt when I’d pushed myself fighting Saffron. I’d come within a hair of ending up like my great grandfather had. Without Thorn…I didn’t like to think about how that might have ended.

I finished setting up the last emitter, then sat down to talk and gestured for her to take a seat nearby. She sat down, folding her hands in her lap in way that struck me as very formal. Or…maybe something of a Dalenos style?Huh. Wonder if her family has a history with Dalenos, or perhaps East Edria, like Jin. She doesn’t look overtly like that to me, but that doesn’t really say anything. People move between countries all the time. She might have even been born there.

“Thanks for your patience. What did you want to talk about?”

“A lot of things, to be honest.” She frowned. “Sometime during the trip, we may want to talk strategy for the council. I’m told you may end up having a personal vote?”

I waved a hand uncertainly. “It’s hypothetically possible.” I wasn’t sure what I should say — I didn’t really know her. We seemed to ostensibly be on the same “side,” in that we were both there accompanying Elora in some capacity, but I didn’t even know what Elora’s motives were. I had very little idea of whether or not we actually aligned politically, save that she was clearly opposed to Valia being invaded — which obviously I agreed with — and that she’d been one of the ones organizing the fight against the Sons of Valia.

But Elora had also been working in secret with Tristan, and she’d been directly involved in Tenjin’s capture. We still hadn’t really talked about thatin any detail, and she clearly had connections with things that I wasn’t aware of.

Obviously, I also considered that Mary saying that Elora had sent her wasn’t even true, but it was so easy to verify that it seemed like a silly thing to lie about.

Ultimately, I decided to share a bit that wasn’t hugely dangerous, and also should have been fairly obvious from what Mary could have observed on campus. She clearly had access to a restricted attunement herself — or her bow had similar powers, or both — so she very likely already had put some things together about me.

I suppose there’s an easy enough way to check her baseline knowledge.

“What do you already know about my attunements?” I asked.

Admitting I had multiple attunements outright was already a little bit of a gamble, but I’d have been shocked if she hadn’t figured that part out on her own already.

“You’re an Enchanter with a secondary Arbiter attunement. You’re nearing Sunstone with both, or already there and suppressing. What do you know about mine?”

Not bad. And that’s a good question.

I thought back to what I’d seen the last time I’d looked at her with Detect Aura, which was during the tournament. I’d seen a Sunstone-level aura, emanating from her chest. A Heart Mark. Aside from that, I’d seen four other sources of mana.

The others were unusual, non-attunement colors. The first additional glow was a swirling nexus of black, gold, and green around her right hand. Gold was the most pronounced color of the bunch.

Might be a mix of a gold and green mana type and a gold and black mana type? That’s…hm.

The second and third glows were similar colors, but with more gold than black, located in her left hand and neck.

Different compositions of the same mana type, most likely, or something like a mix of a composite mana types and a few other less prominent ones.

The neck one is…odd. No attunement point there, but…that’s a classical Dianis Point location. A crystal mark, maybe, or something similar. Or she’s an actual essence sorcerer? That’d be odd, but…Lastly, I’d seen glow in the center of her forehead, which was solid white. I wasn’t quite sure what to make of that one, but I was prettyconfident about the first two. Enough to throw a guess at her, at least. “Corin, my eyes are up here.”

I nodded absently. “Yeah, that’s where one of your power sources is, but I haven’t figured that one out yet. The others are more consistent in essence composition. Sunstone-level attunement, at least last time I looked. I’m guessing you’re an Abjurer, given what I’ve seen you demonstrate, but it’s possible that your banishment abilities are from one of your other power sources.”

I frowned. Mary blinked.

I kept going. “I’d like to think it’s some combination of both, considering how similar four of your mana types are. Something like…a spirit bond to your bow, granting you more banishment power, then compounding further with two other points. A crystal mark, maybe, or a classic Dianis Point, and something with more of a mixture of powers, but still leaning into the banishment. Artificial attunement, maybe? Given what I’ve heard you’ve managed to accomplish, I’m guessing you’re compounding banishment mana, and nearing a banishment specialization?”

She laughed. “Oh, I knew I’d like you. We should have talked a lot sooner. Kuro would have…” Her expression sank.

Oh, no. I, uh…I didn’t know what to say if I’d somehow reminded her of her former teammate.

Her dead teammate.

“I…I’m sorry for your loss.”

Her shoulders are slumped. “Thanks. It’s…still hard. I wish…I wish we’d at least been able to bury him, you know?”

I frowned. “Why couldn’t you?”

“You didn’t hear?” Mary trembled, her jaw tightening. “His body. They…they took it. Like how they were collecting arms. We…” She looked away. “We looked, when we did our raid on the base, but…we never found it.”

I shuddered, thinking of when we’d found all those severed arms in the boxes. If they were taking entire bodies, too, I hadn’t seen them after we’d fought Saffron, but that just meant they’d been moved or stored elsewhere. “That’s truly awful. I’m sorry.”

She nodded sadly. “That is…somewhat related to one of the things I sought to speak to you about. I understand that you were involved in one ofthe other Sons of Valia base attacks, and that you suffered some losses as well.”

I winced. “I…it was a mess. I…” I hesitated. “Wait. How much do you know? I…I don’t mean to pressure you with questions, but…”

Mary shook her head. “Don’t think anything of it. Being concerned is completely reasonable. Ordinarily, I wouldn’t disclose my own involvement in these things to virtually anyone, but Elora told me directly that you were with Derek Hartigan’s team when he…when he was taken. A part of me wants to say that I wish I was there to help, but…I don’t think I could have done any better than you did, if I’m being honest. I’m not sure anyone could have.”

Keras could have, if he was there.

I pushed aside a hint of resentment. I knew that I couldn’t count on Keras to be there every minute of every day. He couldn’t always be there to fight my battles.

I knew that…and yet, it still hurt. His absence at precisely the wrong time had cost Derek his freedom and Sera…I didn’t even know. Saying “her life” felt like hyperbole, but she had died…or, at least, been at death’s threshold. I wasn’t sure what element Aayara had seen that was salvageable, or how she’d helped Sera, but whatever had revived Sera clearly hadn’t been a perfect cure.

That was still a work in progress at best.

“Thanks. I…I don’t think anyone from the other teams could have helped, either. You know who we were fighting?”

She nodded. “A Child of the Tyrant in Gold. Saffron. I’d love to hear what you can remember from the fight sometime, if you’re willing to share, but I understand if it may be too raw for now.”

“I…maybe sometime.” I nodded. “You seem to know a lot. You were there, then, with one of the other teams?”

“With Elora’s team. After what happened to Kuro, Rosie and I were determined to make a difference. We were hoping we’d get assigned to hit a location where Team Bloodline was holing up, but we weren’t that lucky. Did end up getting into a fight with some of the Sons of Valia, but they were strangers. It didn’t feel the same.” Her hands trembled. “Team Bloodline still is out on the streets. They helped kill my friend, and… nothing is being done.”

I frowned. “I don’t want to be rude, but…how is that possible? I mean, I understand that they must have the guard in their pocket — they have people from Haven branch families involved — but…there has to be a level of evidence you could present that would be irrefutable. Memory crystals, that sort of thing.”

She sighed. “You’d think so. I don’t blame you for asking. I asked exactly the same thing. They told me that memory crystals can be faked, and that — going a level deeper — even memories themselves can be falsified. So, even if I was interrogated under compulsion and honestly believed they were involved…or a member of the guard made a crystal directly from my memories…that would also be suspect.”

“Can the Sons of Valia even do that? Mess with memories?” “Unfortunately, yes. That is within their known capabilities. Theyoperate in small groups, with their memories of leadership figures suppressed and replaced. That way, if they get captured and a Diviner tries to view their memories, they get something useless or misleading. They’ll see a memory of getting orders from a person unaffiliated with the sons, for example, to set people on a false trail. Those can range from targeted to cause harassment — like, say, a vision of Chancellor Meltlake as the puppet master for the sons — to things like Tenjin himself giving the orders. Or even more esoteric things, like getting the orders from a hooded figure composed of shadows, or a purely fictional character.”

I groaned. “…Isn’t there any way to determine if someone has suppressed or altered memories?”

“Sure,” she explained. “Unfortunately, every single attuned does.”

I winced. “Judgments. Right. Can’t those suppressed memories be distinguished from others?”

“Probably at extremely high levels, but I’m not a Diviner, either. My understanding is that anything that could undo the kind of heavy memory alteration and suppression that the sons go through might also undo the memory suppression from their Judgment, which would be considered giving someone forbidden knowledge. I’m sure that some people have pursued it anyway, but since you’d have to violate laws to do it, you can’t present that in a courtroom.”

“…Aren’t there exceptions for that kind of extreme circumstance?”

“You’d think so, but they turned me out on the street without giving me even this much information. I had to dig for these answers. I don’t evenknow how Elora and Derek found out what they did — Rosie and I tried some tracking on our own and we didn’t have any success at all. Too many false leads. It makes sense now, knowing a Child of the Tyrant was involved— aside from personal power, they all have vast resources to draw from.” “…I didn’t realize tracing them was so difficult. I went out to patroldefensively a bit, but…” I shook my head. “I didn’t really accomplish anything, either.”

“You certainly did, in the end. You were integral in taking down a Child of the Tyrant, Corin. You brought an end to it. If no one else has said this already…thank you. We haven’t properly avenged Kuro yet, but…that’s a good start.”

I bowed my head. “You’re…welcome. I…I’m glad that I helped, I guess. But I feel like I ignored things for longer than I should have. I was caught up in my own affairs…”

“You mean your duel with your father? Everyone heard about that, Corin. Preparing for a duel against your own parent would be stressful for literally anyone, and he was a professional duelist. I didn’t hear about how that went, but I did hear that you won. I’d…scarcely believe that if I hadn’t seen you swinging a sword at Mizuchi at the Winter Ball. Barely anyone could even stand, let alone fight her.”

I gave her a hint of a smile. “You were shooting arrows at her before I broke out, if I remember right.”

“Sure, but I was at the furthest corner of her area of effect for the compulsion — and my attunement is built for countering magic. And beyond that, even I didn’t dare to get anywhere close to her. Fighting her in melee range?” She laughed. “You’re a madman.”

“If you think that’s bad, you should hear about the second time I fought her.”

Her eyes widened fractionally. “You’re joking.” “Nope. I…we’re getting side-tracked, aren’t we?” Mary nodded. “We are, but…I don’t mind. Do you?”

I thought about it for a moment, briefly perplexed as I realized that my heart felt…lighter than before. Lighter than it had in a while.

I hadn’t really had a chance to share things like this, before. Not with anyone outside of my inner circle, at least.

“No,” I answered finally. “Not at all. Trade you a story for a story? I want to know what’s going on with that head mark of yours.”

“Ooh, you drive a hard bargain, sir,” Mary smiled, “but be warned — you won’t want to stop after making just one deal.”

