CHAPTER VIII – BASE DEFENSE

I stepped into the hastily constructed fortress, finding a dozen attuned already at work on defenses. A quick gesture from Elora as she walked by with Sera sent me in the right direction, where I found a few unfamiliar Enchanters setting up around a gigantic metal rod.

“Is this the cannon we’re supposed to be working on?” I asked.

“Sure is,” a well-dressed woman responded. She wore a tattered business suit with runes around the collar and sleeves. She looked about Derek and Elora’s age, with a Citrine-level Enchanter mark gleaming brightly on her forehead. It was a bit of an unusual design — maybe an older version, or one with a specialization mark?Probably both, I realized. She probably got her attunement in the last set, but also got a specialization. Neat.

Either way, it was interesting to see someone else with a mark like mine, but I didn’t have a chance to comment on it.

“Sylvia Sanctum. Good to have you. You do anything like this before?” “Corin Cadence. And no, haven’t done anything with siege weaponry.

Shouldn’t a cannon be hollow?”

“The new Lord Cadence himself!” She laughed. “Heard a great deal about you. My brother was in one of your classes — he’s a big fan of yours.”

“Uh, thanks?” I smiled as best I could. “Glad to hear it. The cannon?” “Oh, right.” She blinked. “Ones using hard munitions are hollow. Thisis more like a giant dueling cane.”

Oh, that’s much easier.

“Got it. I’ve worked on plenty of those. Is there a schematic?” “No, we’re working from scratch. What levels are you?”

I wasn’t exactly sure what I should say. “Uh, an outlier. Sunstoneish with two attunements, but only one of them is currently usable. Overuse. I can Enchant, but it’s—”

“A Sunstone is fine.” Sylvia nodded amiably. “Sit down and watch us on the first one, then you can help us with the second.”

I nodded. There wasn’t anywhere to literally sit, so I simply took a few steps back and observed the other Enchanters work. With three of them on the process, enchanting the siege weapon didn’t take too long, but I noticed some inefficiencies that I thought I could assist with on the second project.

I kept glancing back at the entrance. Every minute or two, I heard the thump of something impact against the black walls of the pyramid, but they held against whatever assault was being thrown at them.

While I observed the enchanting process, I got a better look at the area around us. The “medical tent” wasn’t a literal tent, just a hastily thrown together pavilion with several wounded on makeshift beds that had seemingly been conjured from the same stone as the pyramid, then covered in some kind of padding.

There was a square structure in the center of the pyramid made out of a different type of stone — pure white — with a silvery door. I presumed that to be the entrance to the actual shrine. There was some kind of iconography involving two people holding torches etched into the doors, but I couldn’t get a good look from my angle. I could sense that the mana saturation was extremely high, but I couldn’t quite tell what type it was.

More people were ushered into the structure periodically, but even as the numbers grew, I knew they couldn’t represent more than a small fraction of the people who had been on the train. I tried not to think about that too much.

Once, a massive blast of some kind managed to shake the entire pyramid, and I saw several people rush outside in response, but Sylvia just snapped her fingers when she saw me staring.

“Eyes here. The front-liners will handle the attacks. We need to do our part here.”

It was certainly a traditional Enchanter approach to combat, and I couldn’t argue — even with my unusual attunements, I wasn’t going to be able to handle whatever was throwing around blasts on a scale that they were capable of tossing around half of a massively enchanted train. Whatever had hit us was either a high-powered enemy siege weapon or adirect attack from an Emerald-level offensively focused attuned. Even if all my abilities were functional, I couldn’t repel an attack of that magnitude… but maybe, with the other Enchanters, I could put together something comparable to fire back.

After they finished the first cannon, I got to help on the second. By that point, we had two more Enchanters from the train watching. Working collaboratively on an Enchanting project wasn’t my usual style, but it wasn’t difficult, either. I was assigned a segment of the next pole to etch, then instructed to make containers to be filled with mana. None of the Enchanters present had enough mana to fill the all the runes for a powerful siege weapon on our own; instead, we were making Citrine-level containers, then the completed weapons were being passed on to others to charge. None of us had the experience needed to make Emerald-level containers. I might have been able to manage one or two if I’d tried, but it would have both raised questions about my abilities and burned through too much of my mana, so I didn’t push for it.

As we finished each makeshift cannon, someone carried them over to another newly set up station, where I heard a familiar voice coordinating charging the containers —Lars.

I breathed a sigh of relief when I realized he’d not only survived, but that he was present. Elora’s presence brought the comfort that came from someone powerful, but Lars…something about knowing he was around made me feel more secure. He wasn’t the strongest attuned there, nor was he the only battlefield veteran by any stretch. I hadn’t even been in combat with him before, but he…he felt safe.

After the fourth cannon was finished, I saw the first one being floated upward, while the black stone conjuring attuned created a stairway to part of the pyramid, then a gap to slot the rod in. A section of the black stone was replaced with a small transparent window of thick crystal, then someone conjured a makeshift chair and blast shield around the position, where an attuned sat behind the cannon.

Another finger-snap drew my attention back to work on the next cannon, but it was good to see our project being put to work.

I kept working until my mana pool was dry, then they rotated another of the newly arrived Enchanters in to take my place.

While I rested, I went to check on Patrick and found him asleep. His body was covered in fresh bandages, but only a few of them seemed to be bloodstained, which was a good sign. His pallor was looking much better, too. As expected, his sword was missing from his hip — Mara must have taken it, as Elora had instructed, but I didn’t see Mara anywhere nearby.

I checked to see if I could do anything mundane to help at the medical station, but they didn’t need any untrained hands at that moment, so they sent me off. I found Sera exiting the only actual tent inside the fortress structure, which I assumed to be where the military leadership was setting up.

me.

“Corin, good. Do you have more mana?” she asked when she spottedI winced. “Burned through most of it, but I could drain more items?”

“If you can do so without risking yourself, I need it. Going to set upanother copy of the crystal.”

I nodded in understanding. I knew how valuable a copy of a gateway crystal could be during a siege. “I can do that. Where are we doing it?”

“This way.” She led me to a back corner of the pyramid. “Any anti- scrying stuff in your bag?”

“Not much. I have the void emitters, but they’re not really great for anti- scrying. I had everything else set up on the train. I could go back—”

“Absolutely not. We may send out salvage operations eventually, but only if the attackers leave, and that’s unlikely. We’re more likely going to stay here until—”

A blast shook the pyramid again. Sera and I both flinched, but the building held.

Sera’s hands clenched and unclenched in the air, then she visibly refocused. “The front quarter or so of the train is still moving on to the station. After they arrive, we can start evacuating this place to the train station.”

“Why not just teleport people now?” I asked.

“Can’t. You need one of three things to be able to teleport somewhere— either a memory of being there before to focus on, direct line of sight, or an anchor powerful enough to teleport to.”

“And the train station doesn’t have a permanent anchor set up? That seems like a pretty big oversight.” I continued to pull items out of my bag while we talked, trying to find ones that would be compatible with chargingthe crystal, or that I could draw mana from to recharge myself. I’d already burned through the mana in my regeneration bracers, but I still had about half my batteries available.

“No, it’s deliberate. They don’t want random people being able to teleport in whenever they want. Not only is it a security concern, it would interfere with business if there were reliable teleportation points along the train route. It’s likely that there actually are anchors, but they’re probably set up in some way that only the owners — Haven Securities — can access them. The important part is that we don’t have an accessible teleportation point there yet, but the train’s survivors do have anchors with them, and they can set one as soon as they arrive.”

“Might be faster to communicate to the train station that it’s an emergency and that we need an anchor set up?”

“It’s been tried. They’re not responding.”

“…Which could mean that the station has been overrun by the same people attacking us. Or compromised.”

“Right.” Sera nodded. “We have fallback plans if the station isn’t safe or accessible. Elora has flying summons carrying anchors in several directions, looking for locations to set up. A few other Summoners are doing the same, but we’re limited in what we can summon safely right now.”

“Why?”

“Depending on the situation, certain summoned monsters may switch sides.”

I blinked. “Is that possible?”

“Hypothetically. We’re in uncharted territory. The enemy army has a visage, we don’t. Katashi can order any summon to do anything, if he’s physically present. I doubt he’s on the field here — frankly, if he was attacking us directly, we’d have died immediately — but he may have deputized people with that power. So, we’re being cautious about which summons we’re deploying.”

“And the transcendence gateway crystal doesn’t answer to Katashi.

Okay, that makes sense. Ready for me to charge you?” She nodded. “Go for it.”

I had to recharge my own Arbiter attunement pool first by pulling grey mana out of a battery, then passed it on to her. My hand burned from the effort — I’d gone through nearly my entire mana pool three times in less than an hour, which was about the most I could do safely in a whole day.

Fortunately, once Sera had enough mana to summon the Transcendence Gateway Crystal, I didn’t have to drain myself further — I could just transfer mana directly from the assorted batteries into the crystal, which was much less taxing on my attunement. It still burned to use the attunement at all, but it was nowhere near as bad.

“Keep charging the crystal, I’m going to start gathering people who don’t have any use for their mana to make mana donations.”

Sera left me with the crystal, and I kept working on charging it further. More and more people came by at Sera’s instruction, and I explained how to transfer their mana to the crystal. Fortunately, that didn’t require any work on my part — they just had to put their hand on the crystal and push their mana into it, much like filling a container rune. The crystal was able to facilitate the rest of the process.

We had dozens of people to contribute mana, but most of them were lower-level attuned who didn’t have combat-focused attunements. There were a few higher-levels among the walking wounded who were deemed too injured to fight directly, but capable of moving enough to come contribute mana. Patrick, unfortunately, was not among them — he was still hurt badly enough that they were keeping him asleep to recover.

Sera eventually came back to check in after the people coming to contribute mana had slowed to a trickle. “How much are we up to?”

[I have eleven thousand, four hundred, and eighty-two mana available at this time.] The summoned crystal’s voice, if one can call it that, echoed clearly in my mind.

“Hm. Just shy of an Emerald. Don’t suppose you could drain Selys- Lyann in there and push us over the top, Corin?”

I hadn’t even considered that, but with Thorn still…missing…it wasn’t a terrible idea. “I’m not going to drain the sword completely, but yeah, I can push us over twelve thousand.”

I drained mana from my sword into the crystal, focusing specifically on draining the stored spirit mana in the blade, but without touching the mana from the pommel jewel. That had a massive mana reserve, but I worried that it was connected to Thorn’s consciousness, and I wasn’t willing to risk that. I also didn’t transfer the ice mana from the sword, since it wasn’t a compatible type for the crystal.

“What’s the plan for all this mana?” I asked.

[I, too, would like to know the plan for this mana.]“A single Emerald-level combatant would significantly improve our overall chances of surviving here. We have three Emeralds here, but the rest are either still on the train or…lost. Elora is already burning through her mana rapidly on summons. Our second Emerald is a Wayfarer that will be used for evacuation. The third is a Mender, which is incredibly fortunate for our wounded, but…”

“No front-liners.” I frowned. “You planning to conjure a crystal Ker—” “Ssh.” Her finger went up and I went silent. “No anti-divinationdefenses right now. Don’t talk about capabilities like that. And no, we’re not doing that yet, unless it’s absolutely necessary. It’s the kind of trick we’re only going to be able to pull once, and we may need to utilize that at a later time during the war.”

I was briefly confused when she said “trick,” before realizing. An Emerald-level copy of Keras wasn’t just a potentially deadly fighter — if he was convincing enough to come across as being the real Keras, there was a possibility he could stop an entire battle simply by being there. Sera was right — that was the type of move we needed to save.

…Assuming, of course, we had the resources to survive without him.

[You will require another high-level fighter to serve as a distraction, then, as well as to serve on the battlefield directly.]“I don’t suppose you have an Ishyeal Dawnsglow available?” Sera asked.

[Unfortunately, I am not permitted to conjure copies of Ishyeal Dawnsglow for military purposes.]…Huh. That implies the crystal does have a copy of him.

“Noted. Let’s discuss other options.”

I sat down to rest my hand while we discussed several possibilities for Emerald-level combatants, until finally we settled on a copy of an Emerald- level Guardian, Malik Beaufort, that had retired a few years earlier. Malik hadn’t been on the train, but he was still alive in Valia, so his presence on the battlefield wouldn’t seem impossible. Of course, if we were being scryed on, which was very plausible, they’d know he was fake — but we’d still have another Emerald-level front line fighter.

Moreover, Malik’s area of expertise was protection magic, the compound mana type that Guardians could learn to utilize. Many Guardians,  Mara  included,  tended  to  focus  more  on  enhancement,especially early in their careers — but protection magic was extremely useful for siege-style situations like this one.

As soon as Malik was conjured and briefed on the situation, he headed to the command tent, then quickly left the pyramid with a squad of five attuned. I saw a flash as he conjured a barrier dome over the entire pyramid, providing another layer of defense. That was the last I saw of him — after raising that potent shield, his job was to go straight for whoever was hurling siege-level attacks at us.

From the lack of attacks battering our defenses for the next hour, I took it that they found their target.

From the fact that they didn’t return… I hoped that they’d survived, at least.

More attacks resumed against our fortifications later in the day, eventually punching through the mana barrier, but nothing ever completely breached the stone. Every time our newly made mana cannons fired, there was a lag in the response from our attackers. The cannons were sending some of them scrambling. Without access to the command area, I had no idea how we were doing in a more general sense, how many attackers we faced, or what our timeline was — but it wasn’t my job to know that.

Mara returned to the pyramid in the middle of the night, battered and bloodied, with Bright Reflection slick with blood in her hand.

When I rushed toward her, she managed to lift the sword with a thumbless hand, smiling blisteringly bright at me. “Thought your overcharged war cane trick was mean, but it turned out to be good practice. That one…that hurt. Bet it hurt that turtle a lot more than it hurt me, though.”

…Turtle?She didn’t have a chance to clarify before her legs went limp. I barely caught her before she hit the ground.

