CHAPTER XVI – ROUND TWO

I’d like to say that I had done a pretty good job of preparing for whatever opponent I ended up against in the second round of the Emerald Trials.

I’d rested, worked on sorting out my equipment, and even made a few tweaks to a pieces based on the last couple matches. I’d hoped to have a few surprises that would take any would-be Emerald off-guard.

That was the critical flaw, though.

Lute wasn’t an Emerald-level attuned. He wasn’t attuned at all. I was reasonably confident he wasn’t even human.

And that meant the bulk of my most recent preparations — modifications to my Arbiter attunement, building new functions that could rapidly make changes to other attunements in subtler ways than transforming them entirely like I had with my father — would be entirely useless.

That didn’t mean I was unprepared. Only that I was underprepared.

I tried to reassure myself that I’d fought against Lute before and fought alongside him. That I had a pretty good idea of what he could do and how to counter it.

On that last point, well…everyone makes mistakes on occasion.

I understood that very clearly the moment he cut through space in front of him, leaving a ragged gouge in the middle of the air, and then stepped through it to appear right in front of me, close enough to touch with a hand.

I stepped back immediately, dropping Bright Reflection into a low guard. He didn’t raise his own sword in spite of our proximity.

“I don’t suppose I could convince you to walk away?” Lute asked.

“Not without knowing what you’re up to. Where did you go after our last exam? Why are you here?”

“Family plans. You know how it is. Or, uh, maybe you don’t? It’s possible you’re actually the worst possible example for that, actually.” Lute frowned, reaching up to brush iron-colored hair out of his eyes. He’d let it grow out a bit.

Interesting that his hair could grow. I wasn’t sure if that would happen, if my suspicions about his nature were correct.

“You’ve talked a bit about your father. He has an angle here?” I asked. “Let’s maybe not say that with a lot of people watching, but yes, I’mhere to represent him and the family as a whole. And, uh, Dalenos, I guess.” My expression darkened. “I was under the impression you weren’t fromDalenos.”

“Not exactly, but proximally, they’re the closest major nation, and Father—” He cut himself off. “I really shouldn’t talk about this, especially while we’re observed. I think we have to fight. I’m sorry. I knew you’d be here, but I didn’t think to see if you’d be doing, this, since you’re…”

“Generally not interested in politics?” I offered.

“Sure, right, that’s very definitely what I was going to say.” He wrinkled his nose. “Should we get started?”

“Can’t bore the audience.” I took another step back.

Haste.

Transference mana flowed through me. I knew I wouldn’t have a chance of reacting to him without it. Even with it, I doubted I’d be able to completely keep up.

“Very well. I accept your challenge.” Lute lifted his sword into a salute.

Then, before I had a chance to do anything else, he swept it down and three phantasmal copies of him attacked me at the same time.

What the—I dodged back and to the side, raising Bright Reflection and parrying the one image that still would have struck me. Metal met what felt like metal — the image was translucent, but seemingly solid.

Not just an illusion, I realized, but the images faded a moment after they’d struck.

The real Lute advanced slowly, but he simply jabbed down toward the ground.

Copies of his sword burst through the floor beneath me.

Jump.

I hurled myself into the air. Lute swung lazily upward to follow my movement. There was no classic sword-hurled projectile, no cleaving crescent of force or light. He just…cut, and in spite of being nowhere near me, I felt the swing impact my barriers and chip pieces away.

It wasn’t deep enough to get through both shields in a single attack, but the ability was nonetheless worrisome. If he could attack without any concept of distance being relevant, my typical style of evasion was pointless. On the other hand, if I avoided dodging entirely, I’d get worn down or incapacitated by his other forms of attack.

So, in this rarest of circumstances, I took a cue from my mentor.

Jump.

I blasted myself downward, right in front of Lute. His sword flashed toward me with no concern for my proximity.

I stepped in closer, inside his swinging radius, and slipped my free arm under his, binding his arm against my chest. His eyes widened fractionally just before I slammed a knee into his gut, sending a burst of transference mana in on impact.

The attack hit cleanly—And did nothing at all, dispersing across his body like water flowing across a stone.

He glanced down at where my arm was holding his, then raised his other hand slowly and put it on my chest.

I didn’t let him do whatever was going to happen next.

I blasted myself backward with another use of my Ring of Jumping, which was good, because a crimson corkscrew of mana emitted from his palm a moment later.

It was too fast to dodge properly, but not too fast for what I’d planned. “Bright Reflection.” I slammed Bright Reflection’s flat against thecorkscrew of burning mana, sending it flashing back in his direction.

Lute’s expression didn’t change. He just moved his head slightly to the side, letting it pass him by.

Then he brought his sword upward in a slice and, in spite of being fifteen feet away, another chip of my shields fell.

My jaw tightened. I charged again. This time, he was ready.

He caught my downward swing with one of his own. That was when I played my next card.

Accelerated Computation.

I flicked the air between us with my off hand, sending a mana thread out toward the hilt of his sword. If I could get a grip on his weapon’s power, then—His eyes narrowed. He’d seen my mana thread. His wrist moved.

Thread impact in 0.08 seconds—Lute was so fast that he could have torn the thread to pieces with that fraction of an instant. Instead, when he shifted his wrist, it wasn’t to sever the thread as I might have expected.

No, with Accelerated Computation active, I was processing quickly enough to see that he’d moved to allow the thread to touch his hand, rather than his sword.

On a hunch, I stuck with my plan.

I sent a mental command to the sword, hoping I understood what I was up against.

Sleep.

<I’m not tired.>The voice that I heard was Lute’s own, but sounding directly in my mind.

Lute stepped in for a jab, but it seemed oddly telegraphed. The type of thing I might not have noticed if I was much slower, or without my mental acceleration in place.

Swing impact in—I stepped backward, avoiding Lute’s next strike by a razor-thin margin. I stepped around to the left warily, making a bit of distance between us.

A smile spread slowly across Lute’s face as he reached up with his free hand and adjusted his glasses. “That,” he said, “was a daring and clever move.”

“Didn’t work the way I’d hoped,” I offered warily.

But, I pushed my thought at him, perhaps it’s what you were looking for?<Not so loud. You need more practice at this.>He danced in for another quick couple jabs, which I avoided easily, then swept his sword at my legs. I kicked the flat of his blade, knocking it wide, and flicked my wrist upward, cleaving toward his cheeks. Once again, he dodged with minimal effort, simply turning his head to the side.

Then he backed away, as if assessing his next move, but really…<To answer your question more clearly, no, I didn’t plan on this. I’m impressed you had the insight to realize that I could communicate telepathically. You’re aware of my nature, then?>You’re a sacred sword, like Dawnbringer, but with a humanoid body.

<Hm. That’s almost right. Same family, but different make and model. Whether or not I count as a sacred sword would depend on who you ask. Personally, I tend to refer to myself by another series designation, but—>I swung in the air, sending a shockwave of essence in his direction, which he deflected with his own sword and countered with a mid-air thrust. Once again, my barriers sparked.

I growled in annoyance, then began to pour mana into my barriers, slowly recharging them while we talked. If nothing else, the conversation would buy me time to try to learn how to counter him, but while I had this opportunity…Is your father working with Katashi directly?He gave me a quizzical look.

<That’s a rather vague question, all things considered. In the general course of events, I’m certain that there are times in which—>I tapped my sword against a symbol on my belt. The weapon vanished, giving Lute a very brief window where I was unarmed. He took the opening to jab again, but I’d expected it this time, and I produced a brief burst of transference mana exactly in the trajectory that his attack was coming from. He was nowhere close enough to touch me, but he still recoiled briefly from the contact with my mana, as if he’d hit something solid. A look of genuine surprise flashed across his face, and as much as I was curious aboutthe conversation, I couldn’t waste the window to strike.

Jump.

I reached into my bag as I flew forward, grabbing a void emitter. I activated it as soon as it came free of the bag, then hurled it straight at him.

He dodged the projectile itself easily, but the void emitter blanketed an area with its power. I could sense a shield around him shimmer and crack as the emitter passed over him.

<Careful.> He flicked a finger at the void emitter, a burst of crimson energy sending it skidding across the room. I wasn’t sure what he’d used, but it was strong enough that the mana didn’t visibly diminish as it passed through the void.

He hadn’t broken the emitter, but it was lying on the ground out of range of both of us now, creating a small hemisphere of void mana that we’d both want to stay out of.

I’m very careful. Some might say excessively careful.

Lute rolled his eyes.

<I mean about your mana thread. Void could destroy it, and I’m enjoying our chat.> He jabbed at me again, but I was already moving, and his strike didn’t connect. Apparently, even if he could completely ignore distance with whatever attack type he was using, the trajectory didn’t change.

As long as I treated his sword as if it had an infinite length, I could dodge. Easy, really.

Just to be clear, that’s sarcasm, and I was absolutely not going to be able to keep doing that. I was already pushing my mind far more than I wanted to by using Accelerated Computation at all, and I couldn’t afford the mana cost to keep both that spell and Haste active indefinitely.

But I’d learned something else — he was avoiding the void mana, and not just because of the mana thread.

I hit another symbol on my belt, Mr. Stabbington appearing in my hand. Jerome Schmidt’s sword flared with void, the black aura around the blade letting out a soft hiss.

I’ll have to avoid the thread itself, then.

A quick jab of my own sent a puncturing burst of void at Lute. He didn’t dodge just slightly this time — he gave the attack a wide berth. Either he was feigning, or I’d found an actual weakness.

Now, back to the question, I told him, raising my sword. Is your father working with Katashi right now? Is he helping with the invasion of Valia?<Ah, no. It’s nothing so simple as that. Matters at their level rarely are.> He was looking more cautious, now. But he had a good poker face —there was no obvious tell that he’d just conjured another copy of himself behind me.

I didn’t hear it or see it, I just felt a spike of transcendence mana. That was enough to get me to spin around, parrying the copy’s sword—And while the phantasmal blade was solid enough, it didn’t react well to void. The image of Lute’s blade bent and twisted as the void aura ripped across it, shock crossing the copy’s features. He backpedaled hastily, then vanished as the real Lute thrust toward the ceiling.

That’s a weird—A rain of phantasmal swords descended from straight above me, dozens at a time. I wasn’t quick enough to block them all, so I deflected the first few while I retreated, then blasted myself to the side to avoid the rest, nearly running straight into my own void emitter’s zone. Which was, of course, probably his plan.

Another phantasmal copy of Lute manifested in front of me, trying to drive me back further, but I didn’t dodge like he seemed to expect — I stepped toward his swing, putting myself nearly face-to-face with the copy. He scrambled backward as I brought my sword upward, trying to clip him with Mr. Stabbington, but he vanished before I could land the strike.

The real Lute stood still, frowning at me.

<I may not have assessed this situation correctly at the outset.>Not feeling quite as confident in your victory?I tried to look confident myself. I probably wasn’t selling it.

<It isn’t that. Rather, there is a growing cost in prolonging this exchange, as you have proven capable of successfully forcing me to dodge.>I tensed, bracing for him to immediately escalate as a result, trying to end things rapidly, but his next swing was slower than before, easy for me to dodge now that I knew the trick to how his ranged strikes worked.

Or, some of the trick, anyway. That sword rain had been different, as were the swords from the floor, but this proved as straightforward as it seemed.

He let me dodge, then advanced, continuing to talk.

<I believe we are at a point where I would be open to negotiation.> I stepped forward alongside him, eyeing him warily.

We exchanged ordinary swings at an ordinary distance. If he was afraid of my sword’s void aura, he wasn’t showing it now — and his own sword showed no sign of damage when our blades made contact. I couldn’t tell if that was a sign of false confidence on his part or if something had changed.

Whatever the reasoning, the simple exchange of sword swings was easier to keep track of than the complexities of magical combat, and that made conversation simpler to pursue.

I knew this was a chance I couldn’t pass up.

If Keras had been right with his own assumptions, Lute’s father was the Visage of the Seventh Spire.

What would it take to get your father to switch sides? Defend Valia?<That would represent more than just switching sides. In any case, I do not have the sway with him to change his mind on something so significant, even if I wished to.>Who or what could?<You are pursuing the wrong angle of attack.>As if to emphasize my point, he deflected my latest swing upward, gently flicking his own sword across my barrier, drawing a thin crack.

Maybe.

I surged in with a burst of transference, waving a hand in front of his face and conjuring an intense flash of light.

He reeled back from the blinding radiance, just as I’d hoped.

But I adapt.

I slammed my pommel into his chest. He staggered back, coughing, and clutching his chest as if I’d hit…well, a normal person. I didn’t think he was faking, either.

I barely ducked the swipe from the phantasmal copy that appeared behind me in the next moment. When I thrust backward, I felt my sword sink deep into something solid. I yanked it out, hearing the copy fall as I stepped forward, and—Lute shot backward in a blur of speed. My mana thread held, but just barely — I could feel it fraying from the force of the pull.

<I take your point.>His eyes narrowed as he assessed me at a distance. A quick jab followed to emphasize the remark, but I dodged it easily now.

<And I admit that it’s compelling,> Lute added. <But it doesn’t matter. I can’t change his mind. Some of my siblings with greater sway have already tried.>That was a bit of a surprise, but I didn’t let it show. Instead, I stepped forward, more confident now. Not that I could dominate the fight — even now, I didn’t think he was using his full strength, nor did I think he’d shown the totality of his abilities.

But I’d realized that there was a different kind of victory I could achieve, one that was far more important.

If you can’t convince him alone, let us try together. Our team, you included.

<That would not be permitted. You do not even have the qualifications to—>As the Wielder of Selys-Lyann, forged from the pieces of the Sacred Sword Flowbreaker, I request a meeting with the Visage of the Seventh Spire.

<You endanger yourself and others by pursuing that course. You are not ready to confront him as a wielder. Nor are you eligible. Not you alone.>I wouldn’t be alone. I could bring—<Only when the six are united will the gates open.>I paused. He was paraphrasing scripture about the Six Sacred Swords, a common line with several interpretations.

My mind raced with the implications, but the facts were simple — I didn’t have anything approximating all six Sacred Swords. That raised a number of questions about how Keras had gotten into the Seventh Spire, but…Maybe I didn’t need to follow in Keras’ path. Maybe I just needed to take my own.

I reached into my bag, feeling for something. He tensed, but I wasn’t drawing another weapon. Not in a traditional sense.

I fumbled until I found something else, and tried something new.

Instead of sending him just words, I showed Lute an image of what was in my hand. A Petitioner’s Coin.

As Arbiter of Katashi, I formally request a meeting with the Visage of the Seventh Spire.

Lute stared at me for a moment.

<There is no Arbiter’s Gate for the Seventh Spire.>I wouldn’t give in that easily. I stepped forward, causing Lute to draw back, making another swing. This one was a more serious attack, causing three rippling shockwaves to cleave across the arena floor, but I stepped in between them. When the shockwaves turned to follow me, I swept my sword in a broad circle, dispersing them with void essence, then resuming my advance.

A deal, then. You could arrange a meeting, couldn’t you?<In theory, perhaps, but the coin alone would not be a significant enough trade. He does not typically accept them.>What would he accept in trade?<Let’s say, hypothetically, that I was having a hard time with this match. That there was a chance I wouldn’t win, or would disclose too much by continuing.>We began to circle each other again, this time at a distance.

<My father may not be intending to play a major role in this conflict, but he does see the long-term value in a seat on this council. Were you to assist me in gaining such a seat, even to your own detriment…>I jabbed at him, sending a burst of void in his direction, which he hastily dodged.

Can’t stand this dancing around it. If I lose on purpose, you’ll get me a meeting with the Seventh Visage?<No. But for that, and the Petitioner’s Coin, I will help you get into one of the gates and speak to the voice on your behalf. It will not guarantee you a meeting, but it will give you a chance.>Deal.

I lunged at him in a burst of sudden speed, swinging at his chest.

When he parried, I released my grip just a little, allowing my sword to fly free from my fingers.

His sword flashed toward my chest. “I surrender.”

Lute blinked.

I raised both hands, then released Haste and Accelerated Computation. A broad, knowing smile spread across his face. “I accept.”

It was clear from the tone of his voice and the expression on his face that he was replying to more than one thing at a time.

When can you open the door?<Not until after the council concludes. Speak to me in a few days. I’ll begin arrangements when I can.>I nodded to him.

Lute slipped his sword into his sheath, then turned to leave. I went to retrieve my own sword, breathing heavily.

Losing the match didn’t bother me. I’d made a deal, after all, for something that might have greater value than a single vote if I could make use of it.

But things were never as simple as that, were they?I’d seen something in Lute’s smile, just before the end. More than fondness or amusement.

Something that said that I’d crossed a dangerous line.

If I hadn’t surrendered, given how much I’d pressured him in that match, I’m not sure if I would have ever walked out of that room.

And now that I had surrendered…I wondered if the deal I’d made might prove even more dangerous than the man I’d just surrendered to.

***Len didn’t meet me right after the match. Her first obligation, after all, was to the winner.

I was surprised to see someone else waiting for me, however.

Warren Constantine himself, the master of the tower, gave me a nod as I stepped out of the room.

“Master Constantine.” I bowed my head slightly. “It’s a pleasure to see you again.”

“None of that.” He waved a hand dismissively. “Walk with me.”

I nodded absently, a part of my mind still on the steel gaze from Lute’s eyes and the punishment it had promised.

I didn’t get intimidated easily. Even being affected by killing intent didn’t shake me like that expression had.

I followed the master of the tower in silence as he led me up one flight of stairs, then another, to the roof of the tower.

It was daylight this time, not the deep of the night. But I remembered our last meeting in this spot, the talk of the stars, and the impact it had on me.

“Easier to breathe up here,” he said. “Ironic, given the altitude.”

I nodded, looking out at the sky, the clouds above. I took a deep breath. “Too many people in there.”

“Yes.” Constantine nodded in solidarity. “And twice as many plots and plans. No, that’s understating it.” The old man shook his head sadly. “And too many obligations. Too much history. Sometimes…it’s easiest to take a step away from it all.”

I could understand that, but... “Why did you bring me here?”

“A plot of my own, of course.” He gave me a weak smile. “A simple one, however. One that says, ‘make sure young Cadence doesn’t punish himself too much for events beyond his control’.”

I allowed myself a faint smile. “That’s kind of you.”

“It is and it isn’t.” He shook his head. “In some ways, it’s more self- indulgent than anything else.”

“How so?” I asked.

“Don’t be deliberately ignorant, boy.”

There was a hint of something in his voice that reminded me of someone else — a fondness and faint mockery in his tone. One that made me almost certain of something I’d long suspected. “Professor Vellum in Valia. She’s your mother, isn’t she?”

“She’s almost as adept at changing the topic away from uncomfortable things as you are. But yes, Corin. The woman who calls herself ‘Vellum’ is my mother. And I can see the impacts of her training on you. It is a part of why I’ve made the choices I have.”

“…What’s that mean?”

He turned to me. “You are the first person with my unusual combination of attunements that has appeared in three decades. It’s natural that you came here when you did. I regret that I am not in any condition to take you on as true successor.” He shook his head. “Today is a good day. Len has been a great help. I’ve had fewer bad days of late, but still too many to offer you the training you need to do what is necessary.”

“Meaning?”

“To cut yourself free from the gifts of these false gods, as I did.” He folded his hands in front of him. “Even Mother refuses to do so. She lost so much that she holds onto what little she can, even knowing the risks. The costs. I had hoped that you would make better choices on your own, with the minimal guidance I gave you, but I can see that it was not enough.”

I felt my expression falter for a moment. “You’re…disappointed in me?”

“Yes.” He nodded. “Disappointed that you have already advanced your attunement to unlock the functions I warned you against. But with those tools, you have brought yourself further faster than anyone could have possibly anticipated. And so, I am disappointed. But I am also terribly, incredibly proud.”

I trembled. My hand went up to wipe at my eyes for some reason. “I don’t really know what to say to that.”

I didn’t want to say, “I don’t know how to deal with people being proud of me.”

Keras had been proud, I think. He’d acknowledged me as his student, given me great gifts.

He’d treated me like family, even if my path was nothing like his. That was, in some ways, the most important thing he could have done to support me.

But he had also made it very clear that I was not like him — that he didn’t want me to be. That I couldn’t, and shouldn’t, be a successor to his own style of fighting or solving problems.

Warren Constantine was like me. An Arbiter. An Enchanter. One who had broken attunements apart and learned how they work. He’d paved the way for the path I’d chosen.

And was disappointed that I’d continued along it, but…proud? “…I haven’t done so much,” I settled on, finally. “I lost to Lute.”

Constantine laughed outright. “Are you joking? By walking away from that match intact, after that display of being able to touch one of Muramasa’s kids in a fight…you have to have smacked the smirks right off the face of the Dalenos Six. Their plans were ruined. They hoped to break you there. You made it look like what they’d been scrambling to accomplish for days was irrelevant.”

I blinked.

“The Dalenos Six? You mean the six most influential people in Dalenos? They’re here?”

“Well, four of them. And they aren’t necessarily all the most influential, since the archdukes and such are separate, but yes, they’re all very significant, especially from a religious standpoint. As the Arbiter of Katashi, you represent a significant threat to that. One they hoped to neutralize by crippling you too badly — either physically or politically — to participate in the events to come.”

“…Would Lute have done that to me?”

Constantine shrugged. “I’ve seen some of Muramasa’s kids play before. They’re not all the same, but they have a degree of underlying loyalty to their mission that makes them vicious when they need to be. I don’t know what his orders were. It’s very possible he wouldn’t have hurt you badly, but simply chosen to systemically take your combat abilities apart. Countered all of your items, broken all of your weapons. That sort of thing.”

I shuddered at the thought of Lute snapping Bright Reflection the way that Mizuchi had. Without Keras, I wasn’t sure I could repair it properly, and...the impact on Patrick would be worse.

And if that was only the start of it?I didn’t like the image of how that match could have ended.

…But more than that, I was worried that even with the fight over, the threat wasn’t.

I liked Lute. He’d been a valuable team member last year. But if he had orders to work against me, I had a hard time imagining a worse enemy to deal with.

As it turned out, I was just about to face one.

“We have company approaching,” Warren said suddenly. “I’m sorry that I couldn’t prepare you better for this, but at least in this way, you’ll have some privacy.”

“What do you mean?”

“Since you foiled their plans, one of the Dalenos Six is coming to talk.” He grimaced. “Stay strong, Corin. You can handle this. Come find me afterward, if you need to. I’ll make time to talk.”

“I, uh…okay?” I found myself thrown completely off-guard by the sudden change, and even more so when Warren Constantine walked away, heading back down the stairs and leaving me alone atop the tower to face what sounded like a terrible threat.

It was worse than I could have guessed.

The woman who passed through the rooftop doorway after he’d departed looked older than I’d remembered, even older than the memory crystal that I’d seen of a more recent version.

Her hair was up in a formal bun, which wasn’t unusual for someone with her military background. She’d always been more of a strategist than a duelist, at least in my experience, but I’d never known how powerful she was during our years together. She’d hidden much, or changed a great deal.

Her sword was one of those things, hidden or changed — a new weapon sat on her left hip, one with a slightly curved blade and small flower-shaped handguard in an Artinian style. Her outfit was the more jarring shift, however. Nothing could have prepared me for seeing her in the stark formal blues of Dalenos, nor the bright amulet of Katashi’s faith shining brightly on her neck.

She didn’t smile as she saw me. She just looked, evaluating me with a keen glance, much as I did to her.

“Hello, Corin.”

That was her only greeting. It was the most she’d said to me in the four years that we’d been apart.

“Hi, Mom.”

