CHAPTER X – THE EMERALD COUNCIL

It took several more stomach-churning teleportation jumps to reach our destination. I’d say I barely recognized the location, but that would be overly extreme, given that Warren Constantine’s personally constructed spire was impossible to mistake for anything else. Still, the surrounding area was so different that it was hard to believe that it was sitting in the same part of the Unclaimed Lands.

A half-mile wide area around the tower was now ringed by smooth stone that curved inward, like we were in the midst of a gigantic cup. A single path led through the walls, and though we’d circumvented that barrier via teleportation, that didn’t mean we’d ended up in an undefended area. Closer to the tower, I could see dozens of pavilion tents, many of which were accompanied by national flags and pennants for various noble houses. I was less concerned with those, however, and more with our immediate surroundings.

We arrived on a massive circular platform that was surrounded by people — and monsters — wearing a wide variety of different garb, including the signature copper-colored plate mail of the Soaring Wings. Many had weapons drawn and pointed in our direction. Others had hands raised, ready for spellcasting. I was ready to throw my teleportation anchor and get the people next to me moving, but it didn’t prove necessary.

“Elora Theas and the first of the Valian delegation,” Elora announced. “We are expected.”

A dark-skinned man in a white suit trimmed in gold stepped onto the platform. “Ah, Lady Theas, excellent. We’ve heard that the Valian delegation encountered some difficulties on the way here.” He cast a quick look at some of the wounded that remained with us, including Patrick, then looked back to Elora. “Please step off the platform with your invitations atthe ready. We’ll need to verify that the invitations are authentic, as well as that you are who you say you are.”

“Of course, Master Zubani. It’s an unexpected surprise to be greeted by someone of your stature.” Elora gave him a playful look that told me there was something politically relevant about that statement that I had no idea about. I saw Sera’s jaw tighten; she’d noticed something as well, but I couldn’t ask her about it right then and there. “Come, everyone. Let’s follow Master Zubani — we wouldn’t want to clutter the teleportation pad. Other guests could be arriving at any time.”

The white-suited man led us to a shaded pavilion where, still surrounded by a number of silent guards, we presented our invitations. At the same time, a woman in a similar suit with a Citrine-level aura walked up to each of us and had us present our hands. She took each hand briefly, casting a mental mana spell that resembled my Identification magic.

“No monsters in disguise, at least not within my ability to sense. No signs of shapechanging. Couple minor illusions, but nothing that appears to be for identity alteration,” she reported to Zubani.

“Good, good. Well, everything seems to be in order, then. Allow me to be the first to welcome you all to the Emerald Council.”

***I felt more secure the moment we walked into the doors of Constantine’s spire. That was probably foolish, given that the place was presently filled with the largest gathering of Emeralds that I’d ever seen, and some of them undoubtedly would be looking for chances to kill me.

I was, after all, both an Arbiter and a Cadence. And in spite of my general tendency to not notice the political ramifications of those things, they would be impossible to ignore in this situation.

Warren himself was not immediately present in the antechamber, no doubt either busy dealing with more important guests in private meetings or secluding himself due to his…condition. I worried that this summit would make him push himself even further, using sorcery to temporarily improve his mental abilities to keep up with his obligations but then suffering more in the long run.

There has to be some way I can help him…but I suppose that isn’t my priority right now.

I didn’t recognize the majority of the people present, most of which appeared to be Caelish or Edrian if their complexion was any clue. Mybiggest surprise was when I did recognize someone from the former group— and she was looking right at me with unblinking eyes.

Anabelle Farren. She was in a massive reclining chair, but sitting on her feet rather than using it normally. Nakht, her personal attendant — or bodyguard, or whatever he was — hovered behind her, his eyes scanning the room while another woman talked more at him than to him. That second woman was unfamiliar to me, but the armor she wore caught my attention. It was incredibly bulky, even compared to ordinary plate mail, with absolutely massive amounts of runes etched into every component part. It looked more like a golem than a traditional armor suit…and that meant I knew what I was looking at.

Advanced Armor. She might be a representative of that division from Farren Labs, or perhaps one of their stronger fighters that has been given a suit for this event. She might be someone I should talk to about prosthetics, if I can’t find a better route to helping Mara. Even if Mara doesn’t want a prosthetic, though, she might have useful information about enchanting, but—Farren is still staring at me.

Awkwardly, I gave her a wave.

She blinked rapidly in response, then waved back. “Hi, Alaric!” Nakht leaned down to whisper something to her.

She frowned, then yelled, “I mean, hi, Corin!” “…Hi,” I offered weakly, considering.

Did she just mistake me for my great grandfather? That’s…odd, even by her standards. I suppose she could have just gotten our names mixed up, since he’s so famous, but…I didn’t get a chance to see what happened with them next — another familiar figure was greeting us a moment later.

“Welcome to the Sorcerer’s Spire. I’m pleased to see that you’ve made it here safely. I’m Len Hastings, the Master of Ceremonies for this event, as well as one of the general event organizers.”

Len — the Spirit Gateway Crystal’s copy of Lydia Hastings, one of Keras’ old companions from his homeland — looked much the same as she had when I’d seen her last. Her bright red hair was up in a bun as usual, but she wore a different outfit. A striking long-sleeved blue dueling vest with a star pattern on the sleeves complemented darker blue pants, and she wore an arming sword belted on her left hip. She also wore thick spectaclesrimmed with runes, many of which I recognized as providing similar functions to my mana watch.

“A Hastings, here before the rest of us? That’s unexpected.” Elora raised an eyebrow in obvious inquiry.

“I’ll get ahead of your suspicions, Miss Theas. As the young Cadences can attest, I’m a long-term resident here, for reasons that are private and unrelated to the war effort.” Len nodded to both of us.

“I’ll confirm that,” Sera replied quickly. “It’s good to see you again, Len. Once everyone is properly settled, I believe you, Elora, and I have some shared interests that I’d love to discuss with you both.”

“Indeed?” Elora asked, seeming to appraise Len more closely. “A fellow Summoner, perhaps?”

Len tipped her head in acknowledgement. “Of sorts, but not in the way that you’re probably thinking. While I’d love to discuss that, however, I must first see to my obligations. You all must be very tired from your long journey. The Valian delegation has their own chambers. Most of the early arrivals are meeting in a sitting room at the center. You have your own kitchen, which is fully stocked, and bed chambers have been assigned based on our expectations of attendance. Each room should be large enough to accommodate your personal guests as well, and as per usual, we have additional accommodations for new Emeralds — provided their status can be properly verified, of course.”

“Of course.” Elora replied immediately. “If we did have someone to register as an Emerald, do we have a quorum to do so?”

Len shook her head. “Not as of yet. There are no representatives of Dalenos present at this time. All of the other nations have at least one representative present, but to the best of my knowledge, we only have two registered verifiers. Were you hoping to register someone?”

Elora gave her a noncommittal shrug. “Perhaps. I suppose it’s a matter of seeing if the timing is right.” She paused, seeming to think. “What about the Emerald Trials? I don’t know if you’re familiar with them, but—”

A broad smile crossed Len’s face as she adjusted her glasses. “As it happens, I’m quite familiar with them. We’re in the midst of upgrading the trial chambers right now.”

“And when do you anticipate them being ready?” “Within the next few weeks.”

Elora frowned. “We’ll have to see if they’re still relevant by then, but… given the interference we faced on the way here, it’s very possible. Have you heard anything in regards to similar difficulties with the other delegations?”

“Indeed.” Len made an approving expression. “In fact, every single nation has reported difficulties in getting here. I anticipate it could be over a month before we have a full council.”

“That’s…quite unfortunate. But I suppose it can’t be helped, and it isn’t entirely unexpected. Dalenos and Edria don’t have railways to get them most of the way, after all.” Elora sighed. “Will you let us know as soon as the trials are ready?”

“Of course.”

“Wonderful. I will be in touch if Valia is in need of them. In the meantime, however, we’re quite exhausted from our journey, and are in need of rest.”

I shot Elora a questioning look. I hadn’t heard of any “Emerald Trials,” but from the name, I could guess what they might entail. She didn’t react to my expression in the slightest.

“Of course, we are pleased to have you.” Len nodded. “The Valian delegation is in their usual chambers. If you’ll follow me?”

Elora replied. “I’ve been here before, but it was years ago — please, lead the way.”

Len led us toward the spiral stairway that led to the upper floors. And as we followed her, Farren’s eyes stayed on me until I disappeared from her sight.

***The “sitting room” we were guided to was much larger than I’d expected, looking more like a banquet hall. It seemed to be designed for hundreds of people, making our disheveled group of only a few dozen seem somewhat underwhelming compared to the massive numbers of seats and tables. Still, I reassured myself that we’d be filling the chamber more completely when — or really, if — the rest of the Valian delegation eventually arrived.

There were a handful of people already present in the room, some of which stood up immediately as we entered, while a couple others remained seated and simply looked in our direction. One of them ran over and hugged someone I didn’t recognize from our group, looking intensely relieved.

Valian guests of Constantine that were already here, maybe? More copies of people, like Len? Or just adventurers from Pending that were in the area?I didn’t get any answers right away, but that was fine — none of them looked immediately hostile.

Elora immediately sat down at a table with Len, who brought out a notebook and a bunch of cards with names written on them. Sera went to sit with the two of them without asking for permission, but neither objected. I didn’t feel like dealing with whatever political maneuvering they’d get up to with something as mundane as room assignments, so I simply helped Patrick over to a table, where we sat with Mara to wait until our rooms were given out.

I saw a few other figures I vaguely recognized around the room as well. Someone who wore Elora’s house colors that I assumed was her dual- attuned cousin, Alexander Theas. A few Enchanters I’d worked with, most of which I didn’t remember directly. Sylvia Sanctum was one of the few I recalled. She seemed to be inspecting the defensive enchantments on the building walls, which was exactly the sort of thing I needed to do myself as soon as I’d rested a little.

I was looking forward to taking a moment just to breathe, but obviously that wasn’t going to happen.

Vermillion Rose, Mary Hawthorne’s usual partner, sat down at our table, cracked her neck, and unclipped her belt, tossing it on the table. The sword belt carried what looked like some kind of double-handed rapier — an estoc, maybe, but I couldn’t tell for certain without looking at the blade. It had an absurdly large red crystal on the pommel and a curved guard with a flower-like motif where the guard met the blade.

Custom-made to match her surname, perhaps? Or the other way around? Her assumed name might be more of a title based on the weapon.

“Yo.” She leaned back in the chair. “Mary’s got stuff, so I’m ‘ere.” I blinked. “…I’m not sure I see the line of logic?”

She twitched her head at me. “Oh, we’re spyin’ on ya. Like, just a touch, though. Nothin’ mean-like.”

She flew back out of her chair a moment later, and I twitched defensively to grip my sword, but she wasn’t attacking — she’d just stood to grab something off a tray from a man who was passing by.

Oh, is this like a fancy party where there are servers with—No, she just grabbed a muffin off some random guy’s plate.

The man — some blond-haired noble I didn’t recognize who looked a couple years our senior — blinked at her incredulously. Vermillion gave him thumbs-up, took a big bite out of the muffin she’d shamelessly snatched, then sat back down.

The noble looked like he was going to say something, then glanced at the sword lying on the table, which she’d set the muffin down next to. After a moment, he simply mumbled something to himself, then walked away.

Mara gave Vermillion a measured look. “Was that a Haven?”

“Ay-yup.” Vermillion took another bite of the muffin. “They take and they take. ‘Bout time someone starts taking back, no?”

“He could just get another muffin, there’s a whole pile of them at the buffet.” I pointed at a table in the corner.

“Sure,” Vermillion said, not bothering to stop chewing, “and he might, which will help remind him of that strange girl that so shamelessly took the first one. Burn it in.” She set the remaining half-muffin down. “S’good, too.”

“Can we get back to the spying on us part?” Patrick asked.

“Oh, s—,” Vermillion coughed, winced, and then pounded on her chest. “Sorry, ugh, something went down the wrong tube. Ugh, hate that.”

I reached for my bag to grab water, then, in a rare show of genuinely sensible precautions, realized that offering her water from my bag might be giving her a tool to track me. Instead, I fetched a cup of water from a nearby table and sat it down in front of her.

She coughed again, took a long gulp, coughed some more. “Thanks.” More coughing, then she finally seemed to right herself.

“The spying?” Patrick pried.

“Yeah, yeah. So, nothin’ too extreme, just, you know, girl’s gotta eat.” She paused, wiping her nose with her sleeve, then took another gulp from the water. “You wouldn’t happen to have your total mana levels handy? Save me a lot of work.”

“I’m not sure I understand.” Patrick frowned. “Why tell us you’re spying on us? Why ask us directly for that kind of information?”

“Ask this guy. Not as good as his sister, but he’s got a head for it when he tries.” She jerked a thumb at me.

I sighed, rolling my eyes. “There are a few common reasons people behave this way in a political gathering. The common term is ‘obfuscatinggregariousness’.”

“Or obfuscatin’ buffoonery,” Rose grinned. “Less kind, though, and you picked the nice one. See, you’ve got a handle on it.”

“And the purpose?” Patrick pressed.

“Could be a few reasons,” I replied. “Usually, the behavior is to highlight something innocuous in order to distract from something larger. Like, if there’s something more important going on in another part of the room, or if she has a bigger secret, or someone else is spying on us more subtly, or—”

“Or,” Mara interjected, “she’s actually here to put us on our guard, so that we’ll notice it when someone else is spying.”

“Well, someone isn’t all toned muscles and good looks.” Rose gave Mara an exaggerated wink.

Mara, to her credit, just gave an exasperated sigh in response.

“It’s not like we weren’t already on our guard,” Patrick pressed. “We were attacked. We…” He shuddered, reaching up to his neck, which still held an angry scar from where it had been sliced by shrapnel.

“Sympathies. Healin’ after something like that is never easy. After Team Bloodline hit us, I…” Rose’s hand tightened. “Let’s just say that I didn’t let my guard down, but I wasn’t lookin’ all the right directions, either.”

Vermillion turned toward another part of the room — where the man from House Haven had just sat down with a party of well-dressed nobles that I didn’t recognize.

In a sense, I realized she had a point. My instinct was to pay attention most closely to the people I was already familiar with. Established allies and threats — people like Elora, Len, and even Lars, who I realized was conspicuously absent.

I was familiar with House Haven, of course, and I knew it was likely they had connections with the Sons of Valia, but I hadn’t really been thinking of that connection as a priority. We’d taken down Saffron, after all.

…Was Vermillion implying that there would be reprisals for that? Were the Sons of Valia, or House Haven, in a position where they’d play their hand at a gathering like this one?I felt my shoulders tighten at the thought.

Vermillion followed my gaze, then slowly, deliberately, she lifted the muffin back to her face and took a huge bite. When she brought it backdown to stare at me, she looked deadly serious, an effect that was somewhat softened by the chocolate on the tip of her nose.

“Well, think I’ve overstayed my welcome.” She nodded, then swung her feet back into a position to stand and began to push herself up…then abruptly leaned in and whispered something in Patrick’s ear that I didn’t catch.

He paled. “That’s…”

Rose swept her sword belt over the table, throwing it over her shoulder rather than tying it back off. “Be seeing you all soon.”

We stared at her as she departed, then rapidly turned to Patrick. “…What’d she whisper?” Mara asked immediately. “Can you tell ushere, or is it too dangerous?”

“Depends on what you mean by dangerous.”

Rose looked back over her shoulder toward us, giving Patrick a crooked grin.

“She asked me on a date.”

