CHAPTER XI – UNFRIENDLY FACES

Patrick continued to watch Vermillion closely, which was almost certainly her goal. I mean, aside from possibly wanting an actual date, which was…feasible?

He was a catch, to be certain. Strong for his age, impossibly loyal, and…one of the only people our age carrying a vote in his hands.

Oh.

That was probably her angle, but there were other options, of course. I wasn’t exactly in a position to evaluate Patrick’s viability as a romantic partner — I simply didn’t think of him in those terms — but he’d gone from being a bit heavy at the start of our first year to being built like a brick wall now, and I knew that some people found that sort of thing appealing from a conventional attractiveness standpoint.

“Corin, you’re starin’ a little hard at your retainer,” Mara pointed out. “Oh, sorry, not staring at him. More like staring into the endlessnothingness beyond existence. I do that a lot.”

Mara snorted. “We’ve noticed. But it’s gonna give people the wrong impression if they caught anything about the exchange that just happened, and if Rosie had any point at all, it’d that people are watchin’ close right now.”

“You…think people overheard that?” Patrick blushed furiously. “I… what should I say?”

“Think that rightly depends on what you want. You like it when a girl comes on strong like that?” Mara gave him a teasing look.

“Well, I don’t not like it. But, uh, woah, ulterior motives, right?”

“Yeah.” I leaned over to the middle of the table, and they both leaned in with me. “We should probably retire this conversation until we get into private quarters. She gave us a lot to discuss.”

“Also,” Mara noted, “there’s food, and we gotta eat.”

There was a rumble of agreement from someone’s stomach, and then we were all in accord. We went to the banquet tables and got to work.

The next half hour or so was a blur of eating and casual chat while I tried desperately not to feel like everyone gathered at the other tables was a threat. I noticed when Lars eventually rolled into the room, alone for a change, and went straight to Len to talk to her.

I’m out of my depth here.

I looked for Sera, finding her still seated with Elora. Mary was there, too, along with a pair in Valian officer uniforms I didn’t recognize, and a wealthy-looking nobleman that I didn’t recognize wearing absolutely absurd amounts of jewelry. A quick glance with Detect Aura showed the three unfamiliar figures registering at Citrine-level, which in this context meant there were good odds that any of them could have been an Emerald that was deliberately suppressing their shroud.

I can’t just sit here and chat. There’s too much at stake.

I took several steadying breaths, closed my eyes, and pushed myself out of my chair. “I’m going to go mingle.”

Patrick and Mara looked at me like I’d suddenly transformed into my previously unforeshadowed monster form.

“…You feeling okay, Corin?” Patrick asked kindly.

I gave a nervous laugh. “Definitely not. I haven’t felt okay for a long time. But I’ve got work to do.”

Patrick grimaced, steadied himself, and pushed him out of his chair. “Well, then. A retainer’s place is at his lord’s side.”

Mara gave a shrug. “Not a good idea to walk without support on when you’re still healin’. So, I’m going too.” She slipped her good arm under Patrick’s shoulder and he gave her a grateful — if conflicted — look. “Shall we go?”

***My brief tour of the room wasn’t as hard as I’d expected. I was out of practice with politicking at noble parties, but I’d grown up doing similar things. It didn’t prove too difficult to put on the right mask for the occasion. (I mean that in a figurative sense. I definitely wanted to make actual magical masks at some point — Keras had made it seem entirely too useful— but that was, unfortunately, such a low priority right now that it hadn’t even made it onto the written list. Which definitely was a real list that actually existed, and you can’t prove otherwise.)Soon, I was fully immersed in the role of Lord Cadence, complete with one retainer and one non-quite-retainer following behind me to make the image more complete. I drifted from one table to the next, noting the handful of obvious Emeralds present and their attunements — two Guardians, a Mender, an Elementalist, and a Wayfarer — and the roughly two dozen Citrines that might have been Emeralds. I figured there were a few people that appeared even weaker that might have been hidden Emeralds, too, but I wasn’t sure.

Others were clearly making similar appraisals. I noted that the people openly wearing Emerald auras tended to remain seated and let others come to them, which made the pre-event socialization revolve around them. It made sense. By that logic, I hoped that I could identify a few other more probable Emeralds based on their behavior, and I picked out a couple that were more likely than others — in particular, someone from House Beaufort with a Citrine-level Diviner aura that seemed extremely comfortable in her seat, and a nervous-looking young man that showed a Citrine-level aura with no visible attunement mark.

He looks like he’s barely out of the academy himself. Maybe someone who got his mark early in a foreign country like Elora and Derek did?A quiet question to one of the people I was chatting with told me that that they didn’t recognize him either. That was unusual. The young man looked Valian, but that didn’t mean anything.

Could he be a foreigner that infiltrated the Valian room? Would Elora miss something like that? She’s obviously stressed and busy, possibly even still injured…In the meantime, aside from cataloguing the potential Emeralds, I paid attention to the houses and titles present. Notably, House Haven didn’t seem to have an Emerald present yet, but I was confident that the wealthiest house in Valia — if not the continent — had the resources for one or more Emeralds.

Unless we incapacitated or killed them all due to their affiliations with the Sons of Valia, I realized. But no, that’s not likely. They weren’t playing their hand that openly if they were involved and even someone outside of politics like me would probably would have heard about that.

Wait. House Haven funds the train stations, don’t they? And with the train being attacked…could they have been involved?I frowned, but didn’t worry too much immediately. It was probable that House Haven’s Emerald would simply arrive later, or that the man I’d seen earlier while talking to Vermillion was an Emerald and simply a rare case of suppressing all the way down to Sunstone.

I continued chatting with people and gathering bits of information. Most discussions were focused either on the train attack or the upcoming voting. I saw Mara briefly freeze as she eyed someone on the opposite side of the room and pulled her to the side to ask.

“Baron Kent. Rupert’s father,” she said simply.

I remembered. It had been a year since she’d first told me about Kent’s father trying to…buy her from her family, essentially. My hands tightened at the memory. “…If you need to make a move, I’ll back you.”

She gave me a grateful look, then slowly shook her head. “Not the time or the place. But, uh, you may want to be ready to hold me back if he sees me and says anything. And if there’s room for ‘dueling practice’ at some point…”

I could see the fire burning in her eyes along with that line—And I liked it. I missed it. This was the Mara that I’d been trained with. I gave her a firm nod. “If there is, I’ll be your second.”

***We continued making a circuit around the room for some time. I was almost grateful when Elora finally stood from her gathering and approached me directly.

“Lord Cadence, if you would attend me?”

I blinked, turning away from my inspection of the room to see the results of a rather rapid transformation.

In the hour or so since our arrival, Elora Theas had gone from disheveled and battle-worn to looking like a classical princess at a ball. She’d changed out of her torn clothes, washed away the blood that had trickled out of her nose from one — or many — too many rapid teleportation spells. She’d pulled her hair back into some kind of absurdly complex rope-like configuration, then topped it off with a ruby-encrusted crown. Her outfit was a floor-length crimson gown with golden threading and more rubies accenting the sleeves. The entire front of the dress was embroidered with a clever mixture of actual enchanting runes and what looked like gibberish symbols designed to aesthetically complement them.

I’d seen her wearing red on several occasions, but she’d really gone all- in on the look for this event. Even the Winter Ball hadn’t drawn her into wearing something quite this ostentatious, but that made sense. An academy graduation ceremony — even one attended by important nobles — was nothing in comparison to an international meeting of the strongest members of the Four Powers.

Like everything Elora did, the look was clearly calculated to accomplish several things at once. Not only was she wearing a small kingdom’s worth of wealth literally on her sleeves, but the very obvious enchantment runes on her dress were a reminder that Valia was a nation of magic. And, of course, wearing her house’s colors was a simple reminder that she was the heiress to one of the oldest houses in Valia — and descended from one of the three “immortal sorcerers” of ancient Velthryn, back in our original homeland.

She smiled magnanimously as I briefly stared at her appearance. I caught myself quickly enough, remembering myself. “Of course, Councilwoman Theas. How can I be of assistance?”

The specific title was strategically chosen, much as her outfit was. As the heiress of an archduchy, she probably had a specific courtesy title that would be used before she inherited the title of Archduchess when her father died or abdicated — something like “Duchess of the Eastern Reaches” or something more region-specific — but I didn’t know what it was. Instead, I went with something I was confident in, that still showed her significance. I knew she was one of the members of our Council of Lords, and among the highest ranked. I didn’t know if that title was as important in this environment as her personal title, but from the way her smile spread to her eyes, I suspected I’d chosen wording that pleased her.

“I was just informed that the sparring rooms have been upgraded in preparation for this gathering. I will be inspecting them. If you would follow me?”

“It would be my utmost pleasure. Please, lead the way.” I cherished the slight surprise in her expression. Clearly, she hadn’t been expecting me to agree so readily, or with such calculated phrasing. It didn’t fit with my usual persona, certainly. She’d seen me play the noble game once or twice, but I supposed she wasn’t acclimated to it.

It helped that I was genuinely interested in what she was offering. Not fighting her, of course. I’d seen how badly worn out she was an hour ago,but even with that advantage, I had absolutely no business fighting with an Emerald-level God Beast Summoner.

In spite of the implication that outsiders might have taken from her request, I was confident that Elora had no interest in simply throwing me around like a rag doll in a sparring ring. No, if there were recent “upgrades” made to the room, that meant she wanted me to inspect them with an Enchanter’s eye — or, perhaps even with an Arbiter’s knowledge.

Warren Constantine had disabled his attunements, burned them out deliberately to prevent the visages — or people like Anabelle Farren — from accessing them remotely for nefarious purposes. But he wasn’t without magic, and he certainly wasn’t without knowledge or resources. If he’d done something new for the sparring areas, I was deeply interested in knowing what it would be.

Elora led me up two levels in the tower, then to a simple wooden door with a wooden slat on the outside, along with a box containing several other slats. She removed the blank slat and replaced it with a green one, which after a moment I realized was probably some kind of indication that an Emerald was using the room. I briefly glanced at it with Detect Aura, but found nothing — it was purely a courtesy, it seemed, not a way of setting the level of defenses for the room.

A shame, I considered. That would have been an interesting idea.

She opened the door, not bothering to hold it for me as she stepped in. I followed her, closing the door behind us.

The room was, predictably, larger on the inside than the outside. I wasn’t sure if that meant we’d stepped into an extra dimensional space — I really needed to find a way of checking that — or if we’d been teleported to another location. I certainly hadn’t felt anything like the stomach-churning jolt of a teleportation effect, but short distance ones didn’t always have that sort of impact.

Constantine really is making this place with a design that emulates one of the spires, I realized. The “Sorcerer’s Spire” isn’t just a name, it’s an objective, and he’s succeeding at it — at least to some degree.

The room’s walls were plain stone, with a clearly marked ring about thirty feet in diameter in the center. There were weapon racks with non- lethal weapons hanging on the walls — practice dueling canes, blunted swords, ordinary staves. Elora made a play of inspecting the weapons, butjudging from her expression, she was pointedly waiting for something. Presumably for me to do something.

So, I took a walk around the room with Detect Aura active, and I began to inspect the hundreds of runes in the room. Most were located in the central area, etched in obvious fashion around the sparring circle. The subtler ones, however, were in the surrounding walls — and those were, I suspected, what she was most interested in.

I identified what I suspected she was looking for fairly rapidly — some marks that were visibly different from the others. The same general etching style, but…written with better tools, and a hand that wasn’t quite as steady.

I felt another brief pang of concern for Warren, but it wasn’t the time to focus on that. I rapidly parsed the runes, finding several of interest — most notably a series of perception-focused dynamic runes.

So, even without an attunement, he still has some way of interacting with sub-glyphs. Assuming he did this himself, which…he probably did, even if it isn’t wise. He seems like the type that wouldn’t allow anyone else to work on the security for his house.

I wasn’t sure how safe it would be for me to inspect sub-glyphs of unfamiliar enchantments, but given that looking at my attunement had worked out okay, I was willing to experiment a little.

I took a breath and put my hand over one of the runes.

Analyze Attunement Composition.

I was flooded with information. Ordinarily, I would have used Accelerated Computation to help parse it, but that was still too much of a risk. So, I manually sorted through that rune as best I could, skimming over that rune…then repeated the process for the next, and the next, and so on.

Elora watched with a look of carefully calculated patience. After a half hour passed, she abandoned the pretense and folded her arms. “So?”

“I won’t be able to get through everything in a reasonable time, but…I think it’s safe to talk. There are some anomalies I’ve noticed — a lot more ambient mana collecting than I would expect in a place like this — but it doesn’t feel like a danger, and I don’t think it’s localized to this room. Probably as safe to talk as it’s ever been.”

“Meaning?”

I took a breath, releasing Detect Aura and wiping my forehead. “The room has classic anti-scrying defenses, anti-teleportation measures, and physical  protections.  Classic  recharge  runes  for  each  mana  type  thefunctions are using, capacity runes for each corresponding type…those are the old enchantments. The new stuff is…complicated, but I’ve parsed through enough to glean the general intent, I think.”

“Well?”

“Some of it simply reinforces the existing defenses through a form of complex layered defense. If you’re familiar with how some monsters have multiple layers of shrouds with different elemental affinities…?”

She looked marginally surprised, but nodded rapidly. “He’s emulating that for the defenses on this room?”

“Yes, but not purely for physical protection. He has multi-element anti- scrying measures. But…that’s just the most basic protection. If I’m understanding this properly, there are complex defenses that are designed to look like they’re failing, then present a false image of what is actually happening in the room, based on…an incredibly complicated system that uses memory sorcery to replicate what has already happened, then modifying based on a pseudo-random number generator, which produces…”

“A false image of what is happening. The memory component is concerning. Does that mean he’s storing what happens here? Making crystals of it?”

I shook my head. “I don’t know for certain, but I don’t see any indication of that. If anything, the way these enchantments are designed… I think even if a Diviner walked into this room and tried to recall what had happened in here, they might get fake results. At least, that’s the intent behind it, assuming I’m understanding it properly. I don’t know if it works. I…don’t think I’ve ever seen anyone messing with memory magic like that.”

“Neither have I,” Elora admitted, much to my surprise. “Which appears to be a significant oversight that I’d never previously considered. It would appear that the lord of this tower retains a bit more of his once-vaunted genius than I’d anticipated.”

There was a tone of grudging respect. I got the distinct impression that Elora didn’t often admit that someone had come up with something she hadn’t thought of.

“Do you find that troubling?”

She seemed to consider the question, then shook her head. “No. Warren remains a possible threat, but only if he’s antagonized. He retains a strongertie to Valia than any other nation, in spite of his ostensible neutrality. It is his birthplace, and he would not willingly see it fall. I see little to no chance that he has been compromised by a foreign power. A visage, perhaps, but if so…it would not be Katashi. Thus, while his added security increases my assessment of his personal threat level, that is not a concern in terms of these negotiations, unless it inspires escalation. If anything, it means I may need to work harder to bring him into the fold.”

“What particular fold would that be?” I carefully asked.

“Well, I suppose if you’re convinced of the defenses, this is a good a place for that conversation as any.” She snapped her fingers, producing a pair of chairs that appeared out of nowhere.

Shaper-style magic? Probably an item. Maybe one of her million gems, or the ring, or that necklace?Either way, she took a seat in one of the chairs, and I sat in the other. I probably would have been more nervous in the past, but this was something I’d known was coming. We’d been due for a long chat for quite a while.

Apparently, Elora had the same opinion. “Now that we finally have some privacy, allow me to reintroduce myself more properly, Corin. I’m Elora Theas, heiress to the House of Theas, Emerald-level Summoner of Suzaku, and the most likely candidate for leading the Valian Council of Nobles after the…untimely death of our last leader at Mizuchi’s hands. I am, very likely, going to rule our kingdom soon. But none of that is what’s important — not to you, and not on the world scale. What you need to know is that I’m Elora Theas, traitor to the Whispers, and leader of Valia’s Godslayers.”

