CHAPTER XVII – REUNION

My mother stood at the doorway at the top of the tower, conveniently blocking my way of retreating from the conversation.

Well, aside from jumping off the tower. I probably could have survived that with the Ring of Jumping and judicious use of transference mana, but even I wasn’t quite at the point where I felt like jumping off a tower to avoid an awkward conversation. Not yet, anyway.

When she opened her arms as if to ask for a hug, I briefly considered it. “Not doing that,” I said. “If you wanted to be the kind of mother whoshows affection like that, you shouldn’t have walked away.”

“It’s going to be like that, is it?” She lowered her arms. “Very well.” She looked me up and down. “You’ve grown.” A pause. “But not very much.”

“Already comparing me to Tristan, and unfavorably. Of course.” I let out a chuckle. “Thinking about it, I might not ever match his height, but unless something has changed significantly, I’m actually much stronger than he is now in terms of attunements and other mana sources.”

She raised an eyebrow. “Of course you are. Your brother never came home from his Judgment, Corin.”

“Oh. It’s going to be like that, is it?” I said, echoing her deliberately. We stared at each other for a moment.

Surprisingly, she broke first. “I missed you. This is not the reunion I wanted or expected, but I missed my son.”

“Missed you too, Mom.” I took a breath. “That doesn’t excuse your absence from my life.”

“I did what I could. We did what we could. Each taking responsibility for a different child, to better protect you both.”

I tightened my jaw. “I never believed Tristan was impossible to save, but even knowing that, I wouldn’t have walked away from a twelve-year- old to dedicate my life to saving him.”

Mother offered me a sad smile. “I wasn’t talking about Tristan.” I paused, closing my eyes, considering that.

“…I figured the ‘born a few days after me’ thing wasn’t true. Too convenient to be true. You could have acknowledged her. She was miserable, too, but in a different way.”

“High society never would have accepted her. Either of you. You would have been crushed before you could grow.”

“That is surprisingly similar to what actually happened, but rather than society, it was my father trying to break me.”

“Don’t be dramatic. I’m sure your father—”

I pulled down my shirt and shifted the scale armor beneath it, showing a jagged scar just below the center of my throat. “Age fifteen.”

I rolled up my sleeve, showing the remaining scar tissue where my arm had been snapped at the elbow, the bone protruding through the arm. “This one was when I was only thirteen.”

I pulled up the left leg of my pants, showing more scarring where my leg had been snapped at the shin. “Another one from when I was fifteen.”

I turned around, lifting up both my shirt and the scale armor. “Not sure if you can see this one, with the way the armor is hanging—”

“I can see.”

“This was my fourteenth birthday gift. I didn’t want to practice dueling on my birthday, so he said I didn’t have to. I was relieved at first, until the first blow came. He said it was a lesson, like ‘you can choose not to fight, but you can’t choose for your opponent’ or something along those lines. I must have gotten a variation on that lesson a hundred times. Maybe he told himself it was because I wasn’t learning it properly. But no, I got the message early on.” I took a breath. “This wasn’t a lesson, Mom. Well, not the one he intended to teach, anyway. I learned the real lesson far too late. Father wasn’t teaching me. Father was hurting me.”

I pulled my shirt back down, feeling a mixture of pride and shame that I’d finally managed to show her, say something to her.

For years, I’d wanted the catharsis of being able to share that with the one person who should have listened more closely than anyone. The one person who should have cared, offered her unconditional remorse and love in response.

“We all suffered from the loss of Tristan in different ways.” I fell silent.

“Your father loves you, in his own way. It can be difficult for him to express himself sometimes, but—”

“Traitor.” The word came out before I could even consciously think about it.

“…What?”

“To me, to your obligations as a mother. To Sera. And, more obviously,” I waved at her colors, “to Valia.”

“I had to make hard choices—”

I laughed. “You know, I’d be almost impressed if I found out you were the one who arranged for me to fight opponents that were terrible matchups for me. It’d be sickening to put me in that position after all these years of neglect, but at least it would display some competency, and that you were paying attention to my skill set.” I took a step toward her. “But no, I can’t give you that much credit. You don’t even know what I was doing, do you? Did you even watch?”

“I’ve only just arrived. I had other obligations.”

“Right.” I smiled sadly. “Sharing vulnerabilities in Valia’s defenses with the military of Dalenos, no doubt.”

“Valia has fallen to corruption. You may not be aware of this, but Valia’s government has been influenced by the Children of the Tyrant in Gold—”

“I killed that guy.”

Mother’s expression looked outright startled for the first time, rather than just disappointed. “What?”

“The vae’kes Saffron, the one pulling the strings on the Sons of Valia. I killed him. Not by myself, of course. Patrick’s blow might have been the one that caused the lethal damage, even if I hadn’t struck afterward. We lost a friend in that fight, but we killed Saffron. If you don’t even know that much, you’re just as ignorant about the Valian ‘corruption’ as you are about Father.”

She folded her arms. “I have a hard time believing you were directly involved in a fight on that scale.”

My hands clenched. I took a step forward. She took a step back, startled.

I was of half a mind to challenge her to a duel. I was that angry.

But I wasn’t my father. I would not resolve conflicts with family bychallenging them to duels.

Especially when I knew that it would be a false pretext, since my opponent would not have a fair chance.

My mother’s abilities were still far beyond my own, strictly speaking in terms of attunement power. But if she was truly so unaware of my abilities, I’d have her attunements turned off in the moments after the fight started.

Or before, maybe.

But no, I wouldn’t take that route.

Instead, I reached into my dimensional bag, felt around and focused, and hurled a crystal at her.

Mother caught the memory crystal.

“Watch it. The whole thing. I’ll wait.” “There are things to attend—”

“More important things than watching a fight between your son and a Child of the Tyrant in Gold?”

“Time-sensitive matters. If this is what you say it is, I acknowledge that it is valuable, and I will share it with the—”

“Absolutely not. That is not for you to share with your new friends in the Dalenos military. That is for my mother, to give her context.”

She shook her head. “I’m afraid that now that it’s in my hands, that’s not your—”

“Crystal 487, shatter.”

The memory crystal fractured in her hand, leaving her with a palm full of shards.

Mother blinked.

“Minor security modification. If you want to see what happened, you’ll do it on my terms. No games. But at this point, I’m no longer inclined to share.”

She dropped the fragments of the crystal, brushing off her hand, and looked back at me with an expression showing something new and unfamiliar.

Respect, maybe?It was a shame I’d seen so little of it from her over the years that I couldn’t be sure.

“You made preparations for this meeting,” she said simply.

“Sure. More than that, though, I prepared for snakes in general.” I cracked my knuckles. “I may not be much for high society, as you put it, but I didn’t walk in blind or unprepared. And if you continue to test me, ifDalenos continues to test me, you’ll quickly find that you’re not just dealing with an abandoned child.”

“Perhaps you are a son of House Cadence after all.”

I shrugged. “I am. But more than that, I’m the student of the people who actually cared. Press me, and you’ll see just how much I’ve learned.”

I walked toward the doorway behind my mother. She didn’t move. But I was prepared.

“Return.”

I	reappeared	in	Len’s	lounge,	where	she	still	held	my	circlet’s teleportation anchor. She blinked as I appeared.

“Wasn’t expecting you to enter that way.”

“Today,” I said, “seems to be a day for the unexpected.”

I left it unsaid, but I felt the foreboding knowledge that the day was only beginning.

***I found Sera in the dining room shortly thereafter. She was eating her own breakfast, since she’d taken the later watch shift. She blinked at me as I approached.

“You look like something’s wrong. What’s wrong?” she asked. “Can you eat back at our room?”

“Uh, yeah? How urgent is this?” Sera asked. She must have seen my expression change. “Got it. Urgent. Let’s go.”

She picked up her plate. I grabbed her drink. I wasn’t quite sure if taking food out of the area was proper decorum, but I didn’t care much. We retreated to the bedroom to talk. Mara and Patrick were out, so it was just the two of us there.

“Mother is here.”

Sera nodded. “We knew that was likely to happen. But given your haste and expression…I take it things didn’t go well with the reunion?”

“She’s one of the Dalenos Six.”

Sera looked very, very intently at the potato on her fork. “…Did you know?” I asked after a moment.

“No, no. The opposite. I’m processing how I didn’t know.” She put her fork down on her plate, appetite apparently lost. “That’s a pretty big failure of intelligence gathering on my part.”

“I get the impression it was recent. Possibly very recent.”

Sera frowned. “You understand the implications? Sorry, that sounded rude, I don’t mean to undermine your intelligence—”

“I get it, I have blind spots when it comes to some of this. But no, it’s clear enough. She was a member of our House of Lords and she’s a former Valian military officer. I don’t know what degree of knowledge she has about modern-day Valian defenses, but…”

“Based on the timeline of her confrontation with Keras, alongside the other council members, she was at least playing the role of a loyal member of the House of Lords up until right before our Judgments. That’s only about a year ago. That doesn’t necessarily imply full access to military documentation, but we’ve seen how much influence Elora has, and I don’t think she was even in the military. Paid her way out of her service time.”

I had complex thoughts on that possibility, but that was a different issue. “Mother is probably leaking information on how our defenses work to Katashi. That could be a huge advantage for Dalenos.”

“Reductive — they’re going to have numerous intelligence sources. Spies, Seers, all that. Other people who are bribed to defect. We have the same. But she might be the single most important agent they flipped.” Sera grimaced. “Did she give any indication of why she’d made her move?”

“Protecting her children seemed to be the implication. I think it’s probable that she made some sort of deal to protect Tristan. She must have learned what we suspected — that Katashi could access Tristan at any time, and that he’s just been leaving the door to the sanctum shut for the convenience of his own maneuvering.”

“A likely scenario, but not the only possible meaning. She could have made a deal to protect you, too. We know that he could potentially detonate your attunement mark.”

I shuddered.

Less likely, now that I’ve taken steps to modify it, but anything I can do to change it, he’s likely to have a means to overcome. It just might require a few extra seconds of effort.

I need more redundant defenses for that sort of thing. Maybe a home- made attunement mark that never allows for outside access, designed with functions to shield the others.

Hm. Any function connecting to the other attunements could be used to move backward to take control over the new one, potentially…unless I could set up a one-way connection? Is that a thing?“Focus,” Sera said.

“Sorry. Lots to think about. Detonating attunements are bad.”

She nodded as if I’d shared some sort of sage-like wisdom. “Well, on that we’re in agreement.”

“Let me make some changes to yours. I should do it for the others, too.

Security.”

“Didn’t you already do that on the train?”

I nodded. “I made some minor changes there, but not as exhaustive of ones as I made to my own. Given the situation, I think I need to add a few extra layers. Probably more for my own, too, honestly.”

“Sure.”

I was surprised at how quickly she agreed. I wouldn’t have agreed that quickly.

It’s possible that not everyone thought quite as much about the level of sabotage other people were capable of when they had attunement access that I do.

Or it’s possible that for Sera, trust meant something different to what it meant to me. Something that skipped that hesitation and went straight to acceptance.

I didn’t understand that. Was I broken, somehow?Wasn’t the time to think on that, though, so I moved forward. “I’ll make the changes soon. No guarantees that they’ll work if we’re up against a visage and his direct servants.”

“I know that. Now, what are we going to do about your mother?” “About that.” I hesitated. “She might have also implied that she’s notjust my mother.”

“Ah. That.” She shrugged. “Doesn’t matter.”

That…hadn’t been the response I expected. “But if we’re…”

“A cursed pair? Yeah. That’s probable. It’s not like you’ve never considered it before, right?”

I nodded. “Sure. It would explain a great deal about how our parents treated us.”

“And how Tristan treated me, if he thought I was a curse for our family.”

“You think he knew?”

Sera shrugged. “He was old enough to see if my mother — and I consider Anette Shard to be my mother, regardless of who gave birth to me— was pregnant at the time that your mother gave birth. Even if they knew in advance that we were to be born as a cursed pair, it’s likely they wouldn’t have learned about that until somewhere mid-way into the pregnancy process, when diagnostic spells could have detected two viable children. Then, time to take action, figure out plans. Make Mother wear some padding, set up fake doctor schedules, plan out a fake childbirth for her.”

“Tristan was five, Sera. You’d be giving him a lot of credit to figure that out.”

“I’m not saying he knew before we were born. I’m saying he had far better tools than we did to figure it out afterward — say, by the time he was ten or twelve. That’s old enough to pick up subtext about Mother and Father treating me strangely. Looks of regret, resentment. Perhaps things about how my mother treated me, or the strangeness of my father never being mentioned. At a minimum, figuring out the fact that our father was involved in my birth is highly likely. We share enough physical features to resemble him and each other. And,” she hesitated, “Lady Lyran, of course. I don’t know if that would be as obvious of a leap, but…”

“And you think he hurt you because of that?”

“Kids rarely need much of an excuse to be cruel, especially when their parents are cruel to them. It’s a lesson that can be passed on very young. I don’t think his knowledge of this forgives him in any way. It’s just adds more context that we should be aware of.”

I nodded. “Agreed. Do you think that this…if it’s true, does it represent another level of vulnerability for us?”

“Yes, absolutely. It makes it easier to destabilize any of our political positions if it comes out. That includes your mother. It’s possible she’s being blackmailed. Again, not offering forgiveness if that’s the case, just context.”

“Sure. Do you think we could get ahead of that somehow? Make it irrelevant?”

“Not unless you have the means to radically change Kaldwyn’s religious doctrine.”

I raised a hand to my chin, scratching at it. I hadn’t shaved. I needed to do that.

“Corin, no. Don’t even consider it.”

“I am the Arbiter of Katashi. I think I’m owed a proclamation or two, right?”

“You already made one earlier, with the statement before your first round of the Emerald Trials. Do you really want to push it with the Dalenos Six present?”

“Especially with them present.” I focused. “Katashi is coming at us at weak points. Family connections, the threat of detonating attunements. Maybe it’s about time we turn that around.”

“Using any influence you have to make a statement about cursed pairs isn’t going to be worth the effort or the cost.”

“You’re right,” I agreed. “So, let’s not do that. We have other ways of exploiting my position, though, don’t we?”

“They’re going to undermine your authority as Arbiter if you try to use it again.” Sera frowned. “They have to have planned for that scenario.”

“Exactly. Do what you do with Crowns and Valor, Sera. Help me plan a couple steps ahead.”

“I try, Corin. It’s not the same with actual people. Especially with…I’m not at my best, Corin. I’m trying, but…” She put a hand to her chest.

“I’m working on that, too. We’ll get you healed. But for now, I need your help with this. Let’s talk out some scenarios. Find the best ones, then aim however we can.”

“I can do that,” she said, taking a steadying breath. “For now? Let’s start with those attunement changes of yours.”

“Sure. Easy. And if you wouldn’t mind, I think this is about the right time for me to look at your attunement more closely.”

“For what?”

“Everything my attunements don’t have.” I pulled up a chair next to her. “I have a feeling we’re going to need every tool we can get soon.”

***I spent some more time with Sera, working on analyzing the details of her attunement. Then, with her permission, I took a bigger step.

I started copying. Not just to memory crystals, but into a new level for my Enchanter attunement.

I’ve gone over this a bit previously, but for clarity, let me reiterate and elaborate a bit.

At any given time, an attunement is running a variety of functions. Some of these are what I’d call “background” functions that are always present at every level, like continuously checking your safe mana capacity. Others are background, but with variations — things like a simple functionthat generates a symbol based on your current attunement level. Another function that makes it glow at certain times, like right when you gain an attunement level.

Others are level-specific features, but present in some fashion in all modern attunements. Things like generating a shroud once you hit Carnelian. These aren’t actually identical across attunements, though, since they utilize different mana compositions for the shroud itself, and some are activated at earlier levels, like for Guardians.

Then you’ve got critical functions like “draw in grey mana from the environment” and “convert that grey mana into these types of usable base and composite mana types”. All attunements have some of these, but with different mana compositions used, and different levels for them to unlock.

Finally, you have things that are attunement-specific. These are usually called “unique” abilities, but that’s a misnomer, since they can be emulated by other attunements. Something like “attunement-specific functions” or “defining features” probably works better.

Anyway, those last ones are the main reasons you want a specific attunement over another similar one that hypothetically has the same mana types. Things like the Enchanter attunement’s ability to, well, enchant things.

Summoners have a whole lot of them. Sera had several beyond what a normal Summoner does.

I’d studied many of them already, all the way back to when I was a guest at Farren Labs, but without a direct copy, my ability to study them in detail was limited to my time literally sitting next to Sera with a hand on her back. It was awkward and limiting. I’d studied a bit more with memory crystals, but that method only could show me lines on sub-glyphs I’d looked at before, and it reviewed them at the same rate that I’d seen them. I couldn’t pause the memories to stop at a specific segment. There were ways to do that, but my crystals weren’t that significant.

Having a copy of Sera’s functions in my own attunement was a risk on a few levels.

First, because of the possibility of heresy accusations for copying an attunement wholesale. I felt like I was mostly past the point of worrying about that. If someone wanted to level heresy charges at me, there were much more obvious things to go after.

Second, active defenses that could be triggered. This was more of a concern, but I checked repeatedly, consulted books, and consulted others — I was pretty sure that there wasn’t anything that was going to detonate either of us just from trying to copy the attunement’s functions over. I even briefly checked with Warren Constantine himself. He advised me to stop toying with Citrine-plus features again, but he didn’t think it would hurt me outright.

Third, capacity issues.

This last one is a bit more complicated. There were multiple types of capacity concerns in play.

First, there is a theoretical upper limit to how many sub-glyphs you can have in an attunement, regardless of whether they’re active or not. I didn’t know what this limit was, but the answer is “high”. After checking my books and with Warren, I concluded that I could probably fit dozens of levels worth of features before I risked hitting this limit. So, a technical limit, but a largely irrelevant one — at least for the immediate future.

Second, there was a hard limit on the amount of mana an attunement had available to complete functions. Much like any enchantment, an attunement had a capacity based on the amount of mana that was used at the time it was created. This was an extremely high value, one I was nowhere near hitting as a Sunstone-level Enchanter (even if I turned on or modified features), but it wasn’t much above the maximum for an Emerald with a specialization.

This, I suspected, was an area where Meltlake might have hit a practical limit — and why I couldn’t just, say, throw extra features at her for a hypothetical Sapphire-level, even if I built one into her attunement. The attunement didn’t have a high enough capacity to do much more than it already was.

This was a problem, but it was a problem for Future Corin. I didn’t need to work on it right away. I already had some ideas, though. Capacity runes could be upgraded, in theory, and I didn’t think it would be impossible to do that even with something as complex as an attunement. With a powerful enough mana source, I could theoretically expand the container size of an attunement to allow it to enable more functions.

And I suspected Sera’s attunement might have already solved that problem, but I wasn’t sure. I’d look more once I’d copied it.

Finally, there was a much more immediate problem, and one I was already well-aware of.

Active features in an attunement continuously drained mana. Ordinarily, they were tuned to make sure the drain didn’t outpace mana regeneration, which wasn’t much of an issue in most cases — we’re talking about fractions of a mana point for stuff like “generate an Enchanter symbol on Corin’s forehead”.

If I wanted to be able to activate more features, I’d have to juggle them with existing ones. And some features cost a lot more than others.

The defining features of each attunement were comparatively expensive. I couldn’t just turn off “show Enchanter rune” and flip on “ability to summon monsters,” especially since “ability to summon monsters” had several pre-requisites, like generating several additional mana types.

But I could, in theory, make a level that let me turn on all the features of the Summoner attunement and the bare-minimum number of Enchanter features necessary to flip a switch back to Enchanter functions.

There was, of course, the risk that I’d make a mistake and lose the ability to ever turn my attunement back. So, I’d have to build failsafes — timers to swap back to my standard level, voice commands, that sort of thing.

Now, this might sound absurdly powerful — being able to swap between stored attunements at will by swapping to new “levels” designed for different attunements. Unfortunately, the concept wasn’t anywhere near as powerful as it sounded, at least not right away.

First, my body wasn’t acclimated to the right types of mana for a Summoner attunement. It wasn’t too far off — I was plenty acclimated to transference, and getting there with spirit — but I had basically no acclimation to air or travel mana, both of which were used in summoning functions.

If I flipped Summoner functions on, my safe mana capacity wouldn’t calculate properly — I’d completely throw off the math with my weird acclimation levels designed for the wrong attunement — and I couldn’t rely on a number to tell me what was safe. And if I tried to use Summoner functions at a similar level to my Enchanter level — that is, like I was a Sunstone-level Summoner — I’d probably end up causing myself serious harm by overusing air and travel mana through the basic functions.

At a minimum, if I actually wanted to use Summoner powers to any reasonable degree, I’d have to start acclimating to air and travel mana — which would, of course, slow down my acclimation to everything else.

This same problem would be true for any attunement I tried to copy, with a greater problem the more I needed to acclimate. Something like a Soulblade would be comparatively easy for me, since I already had acclimation to the right mana types. Something like a Guardian would be much harder, since it required Enhancement acclimation, which was the direct opposite of what I’d been doing.

Beyond that, for something like a Summoner, if I made a contract while temporarily enabling those functions, then disabled the Summoner functions…I didn’t actually know what would happen. Even Warren didn’t, actually.

I was pretty sure it would be bad. I had several fail cases planned, but the conclusion was “don’t do this”.

So, really, if I wanted to be an Enchanter with Summoner powers, I needed to get to the point where I could survive keeping some of those Summoner powers active in my Enchanter attunement continuously — even if it was the bare minimum stuff, like the “create contract” function and the prerequisites for it.

For the moment, I focused on just studying how those features functioned, mapping out prerequisites, and delving just a little bit into the hidden stuff Sera had that went beyond what a conventional Summoner could do. I’d get into that more once I had a better understanding of normal Summoners.

After a few hours of studying Sera’s attunement in detail and tinkering, I had a prototype for what I called a “Jade” level, which worked similarly to my Spessartine level, but generated air and travel mana instead of light. This didn’t have any other Summoner functions, but I could flip it on to just start trying those other mana types to acclimate to them.

I didn’t have a chance to test it before Patrick came around to give us news. “Mary has your sword, and she wants to borrow some stuff for her next round.”

I nodded, finishing up my work, and went to meet with Mary.

She held my sword in her hands, but didn’t offer it to me right away. “I have broken the seal. But…Corin, it was harder than I expected. And youshould know that whatever spirit is in there…it’s hungry. Very hungry. You…might want to be careful.”

“I know. I’ll be careful.” I lifted a hand, but she made no move to return Selys-Lyann.

Instead, she shook her head. “You might have known before, but… sometimes when spirits are hurt badly enough, they get…I’m going to call it ‘feral’. You had a contract with this sword’s spirit?”

“Yeah.”

“Well, the good news is, that’s probably going to work just fine, and it probably won’t eat you. But…be careful with them. Before the spirit awakens, they’ll be acting on instinct, and those instincts can be dangerous.”

I remembered the first time the frozen armor nearly killed me and gave her a somber nod. “I’ll take some precautions. Thanks.”

“Good. One last thing.” She held out the sword in both hands, horizontally, like she was offering a formal gift. “When you unsheathe this sword next, it might sting a bit.”

“Sting?” I raised an eyebrow.

“The crystal that houses the spirit?” She pointed to the pommel. “It was damaged somehow — and its connections were damaged along with that. This wasn’t the seal. From what I can tell, it was something earlier.”

I frowned. “Well, the sword was damaged and repaired a few times…” “Something like that would only damage spiritual veins if it was a layer-damaging attack, but I suppose that’s possible. Either way, that impeded the spirit’s ability to form a complete bond correctly. I’ve managed to repair that, but…it means you’re probably going to get a mark now. And getting a spirit mark from a feral spirit can be, uh…uncomfortable?”

I took a deep breath. Derek had explained that not all spirit-bonding items had physical marks, and I’d never found one on my body, but…the spirit had been both newly born and transplanted from sword-to-sword on multiple occasions. If there was some kind of actual spirit-bonding function in the sword itself that had been damaged, perhaps when Mizuchi had broken it…“How’d you fix it?”

Mary looked hesitant for a moment, and I prepared for yet another “I can’t tell you right now,” but instead, she took a breath... “Danian essence sorcery stuff. I’m not quite Regalia-level myself, but I got access toRegalia-level functions early because of my bow, and I have some experience interfacing with regalia’s spiritual forms. I can perceive damage to spiritual objects and do a bit here and there.”

“Huh.” I nodded. I didn’t understand everything about that, but it was a pretty reasonable answer. “Can I ask you more about that later?”

“Sure. Can I borrow some more stuff for my next match? It’s still a bit off, but I’d like to practice with some of your items.”

I laughed. “You sure can. In fact, if you want to practice…it sounds like have a feral sword spirit to tame.”

***After Mary accepted my offer, I headed back to my room with Selys- Lyann. In spite of the confidence in my words, I was worried. I invited both Sera and Len to watch over me while I drew the sword and re-ignited my spirit bond. Len would serve as a strong precaution — as a creation of the Spirit Gateway Crystal that had originally been created to fight against Keras, she was tremendously powerful with spirit magic.

I asked her a few initial questions, let her put some protection spells on me, and then I set my sword on my lap and drew out a fraction of the blade.

And wow, Mary wasn’t kidding about the sting.

It built up slowly at first, a tingling sensation that traveled down my arm, all the way to my chest. But unlike the first time I’d felt the chill exploring my star veins, the power didn’t pause to explore—No, it stopped straight in the center of my chest.

I’d already felt that was the primary place the sword had attempted to bond to — it was where the spirit had settled longest during our first connection — but when I’d actually drawn in mana through Thorn, he’d seemingly been able to interact with any of my Dianis Points. Perhaps that was because of his own intellectual understanding of how my power worked, but either way, he hadn’t previously settled in one location.

This time? I felt something like a sword’s tip scratching across the front of my chest. It was immediate and intense enough that I ripped my own shirt open, gasping at the sudden pain, but there was no bloody wound—Just a single symbol. Not like that of an attunement, but of a stylized sword with a hilt of thorns.

The pain flooded outward for another instant, as if finally choosing to explore my veins from within, but mercifully, it vanished the moment thereafter.

And then, I was simply left with my shirt torn half-open, with a strange half-glowing mark on my chest.

“Huh,” Sera said. “It’s green. Shame you didn’t get it earlier, would have added to the Emerald aesthetic.”

***After Len ran some diagnostics to make sure that I was stable — and put a powerful long-term spell effect on my mark to keep the spirit from trying to influence me while it was still only half-aware — I stretched, fixed my shirt, and prepared for practice.

The first form of preparation? A mana check on my newly completed spirit bond. I was still trying to avoid overdoing it on mana checks, but a newly formed mark was absolutely the kind of time to get a benchmark.

Measuring the mana of the spirit bond was tricky. It didn’t provide me with a safe mana capacity in the same way that an attunement would. Instead, there were several different variables to test.

When I’d first formed the spirit bond, it had exclusively been utilizing my star veins to send spirit mana into my body, much like how my null- contract gauntlet worked, but on a full-body scale. That meant I’d been gradually acclimating to spirit mana throughout my entire essence structure, which was good, but I had no internal source.

By finishing the bonding process, I’d formed a container for Thorn’s essence in my Heart Point. According to Len, this wouldn’t prevent me from getting an attunement or crystal mark there. Spirit bonds utilized a different “chamber” of the essence structure, much like a physical heart had multiple chambers, whereas the ones that attunements and crystal marks used were the same as each other.

So, in summary, with the completed bond, I had a new container for mana. After some quick tests, we determined that my safe mana capacity with it was much greater than I’d expected. It started out at 276, which was already more than half-way between Carnelian and Sunstone. That was a little surprising.

“It’s likely a consequence of how you’ve been training with your attunements,” Len explained. “If you pass mana in between your attunements, like using your Arbiter attunement to enhance your Enchanter attunement, some of that mana passes through your heart as an intermediary. Each time you’ve done that, you’ve likely done some incidental boosting of your heart’s capabilities. Beyond that, you’ve beenacclimating to spirit mana for the whole time you’ve been using that sword, even before you had your bond.”

Putting it in those terms, it made sense, but it felt a little bit like cheating—I now had two hundred more mana to play with. Nearly another full attunement worth of power. After less than an hour of tests and rest, I was more than ready for that practice round with Mary.

***I practiced with Mary on and off for the next week while she prepared for her match. She brushed up on her own sword skills, and I got used to seeing how her banishment spells worked in action.

There were more political moves happening during this entire time period, but as usual, I didn’t involve myself with them any more than I had to. My focus was on training, while Sera continued to pay more attention to the political landscape and the new arrivals at the council. Continued delays meant that there council still wasn’t formally in session, but regardless, people were making deals. Votes were being secured on large issues — and we needed to get as many votes of our own as we could.

Practicing with Thorn’s bond paid off, both in terms of increasing my safe mana capacity from 276 to 296 and, oddly, helping me feel like my crystal mark and Enchanter attunement were mending more quickly than they would have otherwise.

Spirit mana is one of the ways the body heals, I reminded myself. Might be worth taking some more tests to see if I can start using my Enchanter attunement sooner than expected.

Unfortunately, a quick check with a Mender told me that while I was healing, I wasn’t quite ready for that yet. And break time was over. It was time for Mary’s next match.

Hope you do better than I did.

Either way, I’ll be better prepared by the next time I have a serious fight.

If they’re going to make me fight people stronger than Emeralds, I need to be ready to be stronger than an Emerald myself. Or, at least, to make enough tools to fake it.

