CHAPTER XV – UNREASONABLY PALE

I woke up alive, which was generally a good start, except when politics were involved in my day plan.

I let out a groan. Sera looked up from her book. She was sitting next to the door with one blanket draped across her lap and another wrapped around her like a cloak. I blinked at the realization that one of them was a seemingly ordinary blanket from her supplies, but the other was Mara’s security blanket from the Tiger Spire. In retrospect, I realized she’d probably been using the security blanket on the train as well, but I hadn’t noticed before.

I didn’t think the security blanket did anything special when she was just using it as a blanket, but I supposed it was a good emergency thing to have on-hand — if something tried to bust into the room, she could toss it on the floor to put up a barrier. It wouldn’t cover the whole room, but walling off the entrance would be helpful.

I waved to Sera quietly, then processed the room around me slowly. Sera raised a finger in a “ssh” motion, then gestured to the bed on the opposite side of the room. Mara was asleep there.

“Where’s Patrick?” I mouthed. “Food,” she whispered back.

My stomach grumbled. Food sounded like a good idea.

I dragged myself out of bed, changed into day clothing, fastened my shield sigils and equipment back on, then went to Sera to whisper, “Is it morning?”

She nodded.

“You didn’t wake me for a watch shift?”

“The three of us decided you needed your rest. You pushed yourself last night after everything else we went through — and you have another fight today.”

Mara groaned lightly. Sera winced. “No more talking. Go get food.”

I nodded. “Should I bring you something, or…?” “That’d help.”

It would help me, too. It gave me an excuse to come back to the room and avoid talking to more people. It was a genius social avoidance plan.

I made it about three steps out of the room before it fell apart. “Corin Cadence.”

I found Hannah Meiyer leaning against a wall in the hallway.

Was she waiting outside the entire night for me? No, that’d be absurd, but…“Walk with me.”

She turned wordlessly and proceeded down the hall. After a brief petulant thought about turning the other way, I followed.

***Hannah led me out of the Valian segment and to the stairwell, starting upward, presumably toward the Edrian sleeping quarters.

“Wait,” I said.

She turned. “We shouldn’t stop here.”

“Exactly.” I nodded. “Dueling chambers are this way.”

“I wasn’t dragging you off for a fight, but if that’s what you’re looking for…” The huge woman chuckled. “Happy to oblige.”

“Not that.” I resisted the urge to roll my eyes at another battle junkie. It was endearing in Keras’ case, but that was because I knew him. In most cases, it just felt excessive. “The dueling chambers have better anti-scrying security than the sleeping rooms. Some of them were just upgraded.”

Hannah raised an eyebrow. “You’re sure about that?” “Checked personally.”

She looked like she was going to raise an objection at first, then shrugged. “Probably better if it doesn’t look like I’m taking a teenager to my bedroom in any case.”

I hadn’t even thought about that. “…Right. So. Dueling chambers.”

The one I’d used before was now occupied, which was annoying, because I preferred to be able to form habits and stick with them. I liked that dueling room. It was my dueling room now.

Still, waiting would have taken too long, and I was hungry and nervous, so we found an available one a couple rooms down. I flagged it as occupiedby Emeralds, stepped in, double checked the security, and then turned to talk to Hannah.

“We should be secure.” I gave her a nod. “You have questions. That’s good. I have questions, too.”

“Oh?” She leaned back against one of the walls of the room, seeming to prefer that to just standing straight. Maybe her armor was uncomfortable? I briefly considered if I could improve armor balance and fit with enchantments, then realized I was staring at her rather than answering her question. “You there, Cadence?”

“Sorry, early, haven’t eaten. Mind blank.”

She grimaced. “Been there. Don’t worry, won’t take long. This isn’t an interrogation. Not yet, at least.”

She sounded entirely serious. I chuckled nervously. “Right. Questions for you mostly in regards to, uh, something that might be considered personal, and I don’t mean any offense—”

“Just spit it out. I’m not one for mincing words.”

I nodded. “I heard you lost a hand years ago, when Keras knew you. I haven’t gotten a good look, but it seems, uh, fixed. Or a prosthetic…I don’t know?”

“And?”

“And I want to know what approach you took, because one of my friends just lost a hand, and she’s not taking it well.”

Hannah’s expression faltered a bit, taken off guard. “Wait, really? That’s your question?” She sighed. “I might have misread you.”

“Meaning?”

“Meaning I thought you were another Alaric Cadence, especially after that little bout last night. But maybe you take after your Selyrian a little bit more than I expected.”

I frowned at the considerable degree of lost context. “I’m not sure about the comparison to my great grandfather, but I take it that the comparison to Keras is more positive?”

“It’s different. Probably more positive, but it offers its own problems. We’ll get to that. Or we won’t.” She fidgeted with her right gauntlet, then seemed to realize she was doing it. “He told you about how I lost my hand?”

I nodded. “He did. I know about Akad—”

“Avoid that name, even with security. Knowing he told you that much tells me a great deal, though. Helps verify your claim. He wouldn’t say that casually. Helps, mind you, doesn’t confirm. Before we go forward, do you have any way of proving he’s your teacher?”

“Aside from my Dawnbringer replica?”

“I’ll admit that your replica is good. He might have made it. But by your own admission, he didn’t give it to you. And you displayed virtually nothing of his fighting style.”

I grimaced. “If I was using a two-handed sword, maybe, I could show you what his forms look like, but…” I shook my head. “This will be easier and more convincing. I’m going to reach into a bag.”

“I’m not the type to panic at slight movements. Do your thing.”

I went into my bag and pulled out my box of memory crystals, flipping it open to reveal the crystals remaining inside. I’d removed the most important one, keeping it separate and secure. “This was his parting gift. Memory crystals of dozens of his fights, so I could study them after he left.”

“May I?” she asked, strangely intently, extremely focused.

This might be a bad idea, but…I pulled one of the crystals out — a simple one I’d watched before, involving him fighting a squad of Tails of Orochi members. I handed it to her. “It’s one of the ones activated verbally with a command word.”

“Wait at a distance,” she instructed.

I walked to the opposite side of the room. This one wasn’t a long fight, at least.

“View.” I waited.

The vision took a couple minutes of awkward silence. I used it to eat a snack from my bag.

When her eyes opened, she looked at me a little differently than before.

Wary, but…respectful, maybe?She tossed me the crystal. I caught it, then gingerly set it in the right slot in the box.

“Satisfied?” I asked.

“Not in the slightest. I’d rather see them all. But I get your meaning. Unless you murdered his actual apprentice, I can’t see a good alternate reason for you to have that. So, as far as I’m concerned, your story is true.”

I nodded. “Good.”

“And bad,” she said, folding her arms. “You might regret proving your claim. I’m going to need to take certain steps now. But I value the honesty in your gesture, so…” She tapped her wrist. “I got lucky. It was a single cut with an impossibly sharp weapon. I had it reattached with a combination of surgery and magic. The attunement was the real problem. Had to have Biomancers work getting the star veins working right, then agonizing training to use the attunement again. It still doesn’t always feel right, but it works. I got lucky. Is your friend in a similar situation?”

“No,” I said simply. “She isn’t.”

“Then the best I can offer is the that I wouldn’t have recovered nearly as cleanly without Biomancers involvement. Might be worth looking into, even if the hand isn’t salvageable.”

I nodded. “What about a god beast helping?”

“What, is that an option? Why would you be asking me if it was?”

I winced. “I figured it might have been an option in your case? I thought Edria Song—”

“You will refer to the emperor by her proper title.” Hannah’s voice was hard, and she was standing straight now.

“…Right. I apologize. When Keras told his story, he was…very casual with his name usage. And the emperor was still the crown princess at that time.”

“Selyrian referred to the emperor in casual terms?” she asked, suddenly intense.

“He did use the title crown princess most of the time, but, uh, he’s not always the most formal, and I can’t remember every single instance, but—” She must have noticed my expression change. “You have my own apologies. I did promise this wouldn’t be an interrogation. Politics bring outthe worst in me, and you brought back some unpleasant memories.”

I nodded. “I understand. That sounded like it was a difficult time.”

“You don’t know the half of it. Or…maybe you do. But I’d lose some respect for your mentor if he knew and didn’t come back.”

I blinked at that. “He didn’t tell me everything, but my impression is that he didn’t really have any contacts left in Edria after he left following the tournament. I don’t think he was keeping an eye on things. He was just trying to save his own home.”

“Save his own…?” She looked quizzical. “You know what? Whole different discussion. Not the time. I need to ask more pertinent things right now, so let’s roll this talk back a bit. You’re Selyrian’s apprentice. Are you here representing him?”

“Only in a sense that our interests tend to be in alignment.” I considered saying that he’d left prior to the declaration of war, but I didn’t want that information to be out.

If I’d just convinced a powerful individual in Edria that Keras was my teacher, that meant I had a new angle I could potentially use in discussions— that Keras was a potential asset that could intervene in the war. If I let it slip that he was in the Seventh Spire, or maybe even off-continent, that would undermine my own position.

I wasn’t good at lying, but Sera was (and I mean that with the utmost fondness), and I was reasonably good at leaving things open for people to draw their own (incorrect) conclusions. That was, at present, my plan.

“And what are those interests?” she asked.

“Avoiding war. Turning Kaldwyn’s resources toward where they’re needed more.”

“Meaning?”

“The reason you lost that hand in the first place. That man — that creature — was just a harbinger of things to come. His master, the—”

“No need. I know who you’re talking about. And you can say the Sun Eater. I don’t think that name is specific enough to be an issue. It’s not his real name, anyway.”

I frowned at that. “I know some others, but…”

“Then don’t say them. So, to confirm, Keras’ goal is to deal with the Sun Eater? And that’s what you’re here for as well?”

“To be clear, I’m not here about the Sun Eater. I’m here to try to stop an international war for a wide variety of reasons, the impending Sun Eater problem among them. Given your own experiences, I’m sure you can understand why that’s a priority.” I took a breath. “Could I convince you to help? I know Edria didn’t want to make it public what happened before, but my understanding is that the Sun Eater problem is much more imminent now. Staying quiet forever isn’t going to work.”

“It isn’t my place to make that choice. It’s not my role at this meeting.” Hannah shook her head. “Less so, now that I know what you’ve told me.”

I shook my head. “What is your role, then?”

“I am here to determine if this council is dangerous for Emperor Edria Song to attend.”

I nodded. That made some sense, at least, but… “Why did this conversation influence that? I didn’t intend to imply that the Sun Eater would act against us here or anything.”

“Oh, he very well might. That’s been accounted for and isn’t an issue.” She shook her head. “The problem, Corin Cadence, is that I believe you.”

“Meaning…”

“Keras Selyrian was a significant threat to the emperor. One of perhaps a half-dozen ones we’ve encountered in our lives, not counting entities powerful enough to hurt her, but with no motivation to, like the god beasts and visages. Now that I know that you are his apprentice, there are two problems. First, you may have a way to bring him here, causing a direct and significant threat to her person. Second, you might not fight like Keras Selyrian, but I heard about how you defeated your father, and I saw what you were capable of in the preliminary phase of the trial. You are nowhere near as strong as Keras was, even in the tournament, but I am beginning to understand that you might be a different kind of threat.”

I braced myself for hostility, but I sensed nothing of the sort. If anything, she seemed…resigned?“So, because Keras or I might be a threat, the emperor won’t attend, and you can’t make decisions related to helping with the war?”

Hannah Meiyer gave me a sad smile. “You misunderstand me, Corin Cadence. We have the opposite problem. I’m not here to guard the emperor from danger. I’m here to assess if there’s anyone dangerous enough to warrant her interest.”

She folded her hands together. “When I walk out of here, I’ll be letting the emperor know what I just learned. Congratulations, Corin Cadence. You’ve earned yourself an audience with the ruler of the most powerful nation on Kaldwyn. Try not to make her too excited. I’m still cleaning up what Selyrian left behind.”

***I tried not to think too much about the implications of attracting the attention of the Emperor of Edria.

I failed, of course.

Well, on the plus side, it sounds like she’ll be positively disposed toward me…?No, that’s probably not a positive. Keras getting her attention nearly led to a different kind of international war.

I guess I can finally tell Keras I’m following in his footsteps? Ugh.

Mistakes were made.

Finally, I went for breakfast. I needed breakfast. And, weirdly, I needed someone to talk to.

That was a change. During my years of isolation, I’d gotten used to just turning things over in my mind and fighting with them myself, over and over. But in the brief respite that was living at Derek’s home, I’d…gotten used to people, at least a bit. Being able to bounce things off a sister and peers.

And…older male figures in my life I trusted, too. I wasn’t quite ready to think about how to classify Derek and Keras’ roles in my life, but they were present in a way that others hadn’t been for a very long time. And now they were gone.

I pushed down that thought, focusing on the people who were still available.

Patrick was looking better when I found him at breakfast, both medically — he’d clearly received expert treatment and was looking little more than haggard — and in terms of demeanor. In fact, I hadn’t seen him talking as animatedly as he had been in weeks. Not since the Saffron incident.

The reason for his improved attitude was clear.

“Don’t think you can put off showing me that sword forever,” Vermillion teased him, eliciting an obvious blush. “You keep talkin’ it up like that without drawin’ it, I’m never gonna believe you.”

Patrick coughed. “I, uh, would be happy to demonstrate, you know, swordplay, and, uh—”

People were difficult for me to deal with, but even I could tell that Patrick could use a bit of a rescue. And I needed one too, given what I’d just run into.

I approached their table. “Am I interrupting? This isn’t your date, is it?” “No no no, not a date,” Patrick stammered.

“Not yet,” Vermillion told him firmly. “We gotta find a good spot fer that, more private-like. And no, Cadence, you aren’t interruptin’.”

She never actually turned to speak to me, keeping her eyes on Patrick the whole time. I couldn’t tell if there was actual interest in there orsomething more predatory.

Well, at least she’s not a serpent girl who looks at me like a literal predator.

…That may be unfair to Satsuki. She actually seems nice. Maybe I should talk to her at some point, she could probably use a friend right now, given everything that’s going on.

“Food is over there,” Patrick indicated. “Do you want me to get you something, or…?”

Vermillion’s gaze seemed to darken a little when he made that offer.

Strange.

“No, it’s fine. I can get my own plate. Thanks, Patrick.” I grabbed some food — a cinnagar roll and breakfast potatoes — and some juice. Then, I sat back down. They’d shifted their conversation to less provocative topics, which meant Patrick’s blushing had ceased, and he looked a little more intent.

“…which is why you should consider joinin’ our bloc. Meltlake clearly would be with us on this, you have’ta agree,” Vermillion urged.

Patrick seemed contemplative. “She certainly doesn’t support the current dominance of nobles in politics, but I’m not sure this is the time to try to create a bloc to extract concessions from the nobility in order to take basic actions in support of Valia as a whole.”

“If this isn’t the time, when will it be? Right now, we’re actually poised to do somethin’ meaningful. Without a united Valia, we’re gonna get torn to shreds in any council negotiations. We know that, the nobles know that. We need representation. Now is a time we might actually be able to get it.”

“I’m late to the talk,” I said, poking a bit of potato with my fork, “but if I understand the argument, you’re talking about a voting bloc withholding votes on major issues until something changes in the Valian government structure?”

“Not quite that far. We’d make the votes when there’s a formal, contractual agreement to make those changes. Even we understand that actually implementing the changes is going to take time.”

I frowned. “I can understand your reasoning, but…isn’t war a time when we should all be showing a united front?”

“Yeah, I’m sure you’d say that. Easy to talk about unity when yer standin’ tall on the backs of the common folk.”

“That’s not really fair,” Patrick said. “Corin fought the Sons of Valia, and he’s never been anything but kind—”

“In hirin’ ya to scrape at his feet.” Vermillion rolled her eyes. “You’re so integrated into the system you don’t even see the boots on your back.”

Patrick looked aghast at how quickly the conversation had turned.

I, at least, was trained — for better or worse — in political debates. This didn’t faze me the way it seemed to for him. Maybe because I didn’t have the same investment in her opinions.

But beyond that, it was something I’d already put a lot of thought into.

“Vermillion is right,” I said, seeming to surprise them both. Eyes turned to me. “At least in part. I can’t speak to understanding the nuances of all the issues in play here, and for that reason, I’m not really comfortable immediately throwing my support behind any sort of voting bloc. But I get why you’re passionate about this, Vermillion. I don’t know what your whole situation was prior to the last few months, but I know you just lost close a friend because of the nightmare that was the Sons of Valia, and that’s a direct consequence of our political structure being stagnant for too long. If that had happened to Patrick — and it almost did — I would have been ready to cross blades with anyone who disagreed with me about the need for immediate and significant change. I get it.”

Vermillion’s expression softened, then turned suspicious. “Strong words, Cadence. I’d thank ya, but I’ve ‘eard sweet whispers from your kind before.”

I nodded. “You have to know I was a part of the takedown of the Sons of Valia, too.”

“Sure, and I’ll clap for that, but there are always more angles for nobles. Could be that you just had a bone to pick with the houses involved and wanted your own house in a better spot. I know some of the people helping us were like that. Didn’t even bother to hide it.”

I looked from side-to-side. “Should we really be talking about this in public?”

“I don’t have anything to hide. Vek anyone who still supports the Sons of Valia. If they’re still hiding in this crowd and want to throw down, believe me when I say that I’ll take that challenge any day, any time.”

Patrick looked conflicted. “…That might not be wise, when those people are probably Emeralds.”

“Or whatever those weird multi-attuned monsters are. Yeah, I know.

Believe me, I’ve got a trick or two of my own.” She folded her arms. “I’d like to see that sometime,” Patrick said, a little quieter.

She looked a little happier at that remark, but the time for the flirtation had obviously passed. It didn’t do as much as it might have earlier in the conversation.

“Okay,” I said, raising a hand in a “slow down” gesture. “Vermillion—” “Rose.” She rolled her eyes. “No one calls me Vermillion.”

“Right. A direct question, then. You’re talking about building a commoner’s bloc. But aren’t you working with Elora Theas?”

She sighed. “Sure, someone’s gotta pay the bills. I know what I’m getting into and she knows what she’s payin’ for. Mary is…maybe a little less worldly about these things. Gets it in her head that anyone who says a few nice words and pats her on the head is one of the good guys. I’ve seen too much.” Rose shook her head. “You can’t do politics without involvin’ people in power. Well, or removing them entirely, but I can’t do that on my own.”

The weight of that statement was obvious, but even if she was willing to speak openly with those sorts of implications, I wasn’t going to follow it up. Dealing with one assassination attempt this week had been enough.

“And you don’t think that Elora is going to guide any sort of commoner’s bloc toward her own advantage, if she’s involved?”

“She’ll certainly try. Don’t get me wrong, I’d love to just take all the non-noble Emeralds and do our own thing, but there ain’t enough. Even if I qualify as an Emerald myself, it’s not going to be easy to sway more people.”

“…Are you intending to try?”

“Thinkin’ about it. I know what you and Mary are trying to do. She wants to talk to you about that soon, by the way. And…nice work with your match. Heard it was a good one.”

I nodded. “Thanks.”

Rose gave me a half-nod, seeming to respect my combat ability more than anything else I’d managed. “Since Mary does like you, if you end up playing well together, maybe I’ll talk to you more later. For now…yer food must be gettin’ cold, and I’ve got more work to do.” She pushed herself up from the table. “Sorry, Patrick. Can we pick this up later?”

“Y—yeah. Sure. Any time.”

A quick nod, then she headed off, presumably to see if she could find any other candidates for her faction.

I took a deep breath. “Sorry if I ruined your breakfast. I was hoping to help.”

“No. You’re…I needed the assist. I like Rose, but she’s intense. Very intense. Passionate. That…I think that’s a good thing, but I’ve never been politically minded. I think I might need to brush up on some things to keep up with her?”

“That might be a good idea either way.” I gave him a nod. “I have a feeling that, Sera aside, none of us were really ready for this. And we’re going to need to make some hard choices soon, whether we’re ready or not.”

***It wasn’t long after breakfast — and bringing food back to Sera, as promised — before I had my next discussion. At least in this case, it was one I was prepared for.

“Corin, can we talk privately?” Mary Hawthorne asked.

I was already getting into a routine of taking people to the dueling chambers for private chats, and I had a pretty good idea about what this was going to be concerning, so I didn’t hesitate. “Yeah. Let’s go.”

We stepped into the dueling chamber, marking it as occupied and closing the door. I double checked the defenses on the room, just in case someone had tampered with them while I was gone, then we got to talking.

“Congratulations on succeeding in your first match. I’m told it was an impressive performance.”

I nodded. “Thank you.”

“If my read on you is right, we can dispense with the formalities?” she asked.

“Please. It’s been one day and I’m already exhausted with the political talk.”

“Same. I’m very, uh, not used to this.” Her expression faltered for a moment, showing a hint of vulnerability. Knowing — or at least strongly suspecting — who she worked for, I had to wonder if that apparent vulnerability was real or calculated. Or a bit of both, maybe.

As much as I loathed to recall my education on politics, the message that a lie was most convincing when it contained a bit of truth was something that I wouldn’t easily forget.

“I hope it gets easier,” I said honestly. “I take it you’re here to ask for assistance in appearing to be an Emerald?”

She blinked. “Even more direct than I expected, but yes. That’s it. I need to get in early. As I’m sure you were informed, people from Dalenos have started to arrive. I’m told they already got involved in your match.”

“I heard that, too. A summon showed up at the end that I wasn’t fully prepared for.”

“But you still handled it. An Emerald-level Summon, without proper preparation.” She frowned. “How? If you’ll forgive me, that shouldn’t be possible, especially while you’re recovering.”

“I’m not going to tell you everything, but in the spirit of whatever this nascent alliance of ours is, I’ll give you what Elora has probably already figured out. It’s mostly that I’m over-geared for my level. I have mana batteries to supplement my mana pool, shield sigils, several magic swords for different circumstances.”

“Including a void sword, correct?” I nodded. It wasn’t a secret.

“I might need to borrow that. And, of course, have you do whatever tampering you need to do with my attunement to make me look like an Emerald, please.”

I frowned. “Why would you want the sword?”

“Same reason you needed it, I suspect. Banishment isn’t equally effective against all mana types. If I run into something like a light elemental — or worse, a banishment elemental — there’s a chance they could shape it or even reflect it at me. Given what happened in your match, I think that’s plausible.”

“But…Can you use a sword?”

“Honestly? Not great with one. Rosie is the sword fighter. But if it comes down to a situation where banishment arrows don’t work, I’m better off having a backup plan.”

“Yeah, sure, no disagreement. Just was thinking the sword wouldn’t necessarily be the best option, when you could just use a void emitter—”

“…A what now?”

“Oh.” It turned out I was very bad at keeping my abilities secret after all. “Let’s discuss options and costs.”

***Mary Hawthorne’s right hand trembled as she stepped into the room, but her green aura flared brightly under my Detect Aura spell. She nervously reached up to adjust the new circlet of black metal on her forehead, which had replaced the one I’d usually seen her wearing.

As I was not yet an Emerald or member of the council, I wasn’t a part of determining if Mary was qualified to be there. I wasn’t given permission to sit in the audience chamber.

Instead, I was sitting in a nearby waiting room with Len, gazing into a tall, enchanted mirror on the wall that showed the interior of the trial chamber.

As a competitor, using my influence with Len to watch Mary’s fight was probably some kind of cheating. It was, however, exactly the type of “cheating” that was expected at this sort of political event.

And this sort of cheating was a lot more convenient than trying to break through the anti-scrying runes on the room on my own. Mary was wearing multiple items I’d made, so I had the means to target her with divination spells with relative ease. I’d considered it, and I thought it might be doable, but it would take a ton of mana and effort, and I couldn’t be subtle about it.

No, lounging on a couch with Len, a bowl of pretzels between us, was much nicer.

“She’s terrified,” Len remarked. “You think she’ll fail?” I asked.

Len was quiet for a moment, then shook her head.

“No,” she whispered. “Hers is the terror that moves, not the terror that freezes.”

The room went black.

And, as Len suggested, Mary moved.

An arrow tore through the darkness like paper, slamming into the chest of a monstrous ape-like being with four arms, which promptly disintegrated.

Mary’s aura flared around her, a dome of light that burned blindingly bright in the still-shaded room. There was a hint of sound, then her hand blurred at her bowstring. She hadn’t drawn an arrow — it simply formed as she pulled the bowstring back, then launched forward into a creature that didn’t even finish solidifying before the arrow took it dead-center. Then, nothing.

Mary took another step forward.

A hiss sounded from behind her.

Mary snapped her fingers. Her aura flattened, then flashed backward like a crescent moon circling her from back-to-front.

A ten-foot-tall ogre growled…then a line appeared across the creature’s body, from bottom to top. It split in half vertically where Mary’s light had passed through it like a scythe blade.

She stepped forward.

As the next creatures appeared around her, a half-dozen red-skinned goblinoid creatures in crimson caps, she whipped her left hand horizontally. Her aura followed, still compressed into a line, and cleaved through them like wheat.

Mary stepped forward—And faltered as the room shifted from darkness to pale grey light.

A tall man, gangly and pale, stood on the opposite side of the room. He wore a gleaming silvery diadem on his forehead attached to a thin, glittering chain. The chain attached to an amulet around his neck, then further on to the hilt of the tremendous, curved sword held at rest against his shoulder.

An arrow of pure light flashed across the room—And turned grey as it came into his aura, its light flickering and dying as he caught it absently in his free hand.

“Now this,” the ashen-skinned man remarked, “reminds me of something I haven’t seen in a very long time.”

Mary took one step back. Then another. Then another. The regal man smiled. His hand tightened.

Mary’s arrow of faltering light snapped between his fingers.

“You already know who I am, don’t you, little girl?” the pale man asked.

He stepped toward her.

Another arrow flashed across the room. He didn’t bother to catch this one — he simply turned his head aside and let it fly past him, dissipating harmlessly as it struck the back wall.

“You’re just a conjuration. A figment of the true Pale King.” “Am I, now?”

He seemed to slide across the floor with his next step, arriving next to Mary without clearly moving through the intervening space. It…wasn’t like any teleportation I’d seen. It was more like…he’d just walked, and the space next to Mary was the next logical step for him to be.

Mary didn’t move, but her aura did, spinning in a circular motion around her to cleave through the Pale King.

It hit him in the midsection and stopped dead, pushing against his unarmored body without cutting. Sparks flew from contact between banishment and whatever magic he held, but if it caused him any discomfort, the Pale King didn’t show it.

“Now, now, dear. You should know better than to use such a faulty translation. After all, you’re a long way from home, aren’t you? And where we come from, you should know that there is only one thing to do in the presence of your Ashen Lord.”

He leaned in close to Mary. “Kneel.”

The force of his word hit me like a punch in the gut, even watching through the crystal. I gritted my teeth, feeling something pushing down on my spirit—And I flared my own spirit mana in response, pushing aside the influence of the Pale King’s spirit that had slammed into me.

Sakki.

I’d felt it more than once, now. From Katashi, from Wrynn Jaden. Something similar from Keras, although my elementary reading on spirit arts had taught me that what he was manifesting was technically kenki, or sword intent, a subtly different form of spirit projection.

This, though?This was killing intent, plain and unadorned.

It had barely brushed against me, far from the room in which the battle was happening, and it had still nearly bowled me over.

Len weathered it better, but even she briefly showed a look of concentration. I saw a brief manifestation of something as she countered it. Presumably, as a creature formed from the Spirit Gateway Shrine, she was much more adept at spirit manipulation than I was.

Mary, however… Mary fell.

I didn’t expect it. I figured she’d have some sort of overpowered counter, some kind of specialized defense for whatever out-of-context problem she faced. Every time I’d seen her fight, she’d been ahead of me in power.

But in this case?It turns out fighting an Emerald when you’re not one is, at times, not an equation you can fully counter with other tricks.

She hit the ground on her knees.

The Pale King raised the crescent-shaped sword in his hand, looking almost disappointed.

“I’d expected more from the wielder of that bow. Alas, it would appear that you are the figment, dear. A fake, just like she was.”

Mary whispered something.

“What was that?” the Pale King asked, frowning. He leaned in closer.

And Mary Hawthorne slammed her black circlet into his forehead.

That, I knew, would not cause him the slightest harm. Not physically, anyway. I knew of the Pale King’s armaments, and even if this copy didn’t have the same versions that Keras had won in the Tournament of the Sacred Sword, the facsimiles he wore clearly glowed under Detect Aura. They were Emerald-level items, with the amulet providing Emerald-level defenses.

But like shrouds and many defensive items, it didn’t work particularly well when you got inside the aura it made. And that black circlet Mary was wearing?That was one of my void emitters, with the power transferred into a new item in the hours before the match.

When she slammed the void emitter into his face, it turned on, bathing the area in void mana — one of the few types that could counter the stasis- type defenses of the Pale King’s magic.

We hadn’t known that they’d use the Pale King. I hadn’t the faintest idea who could summon a copy of him, nor had the option been on the list, in spite of knowing someone had summoned him during the tournament against Keras.

We’d just prepared for anyone who could counter banishment. We’d gotten lucky.

It still didn’t work.

The Pale King’s face distorted for a moment as the void mana rippled outward, his amulet’s glow briefly faltering—Then he smashed her in the face with the pommel of his sword.

Mary fell backward, her jaw bleeding. I could see the cracks in the air where he’d punched straight through her shield sigil’s barrier without theslightest difficulty. The rippling field of void remained active around her, clashing against the power of the Pale King’s grey aura, but losing.

It was just one void emitter, after all. Sunstone-level against an Emerald-level monster with Emerald-level equipment. Even with void being an excellent counter to summons, it simply wasn’t enough.

The Pale King laughed as Mary spat blood, then fired another arrow from the ground. He swept his sword out this time, splitting the arrow in two, and leaving a glimmering field of force hanging in the air where the cut had been made.

I grimaced.

I knew how that sword worked. The Pale Crescent would leave phantasmal cuts in the air with every swing, which would then answer to various commands, moving in different ways.

When Keras had fought the Pale King, he’d dodged his way around the massive throne room, observing the Pale King’s powers and learning to counter them. He had prodigious speed and power and Dawnbringer at his side.

Mary Hawthorne had a room that was, charitably, a tenth that size to work with and a bow that, while seemingly powerful, already had proven not to work.

The Pale King advanced. Mary’s arrows shattered against his defenses, her expression increasingly desperate. Finally, as wounds continued to gather in the air of the room, the Pale King’s sword began to transform. The curved blade stretched and grew, and along with it, I could see the weapon’s power thrumming around it, distorting the air.

He pointed his sword in her direction. “An all-too-brief reunion ends.

Low tide.”

The crescent cuts in the air shook for a moment — then surged in Mary’s direction.

And Mary…smiled?She slammed her bow into the ground, then dragged the bottom in a line. I blinked in confusion. That was no way to treat a bow, but…it left a white trail on the ground.

Then she stood still as dozens of flashing blades converged on her — and slammed harmlessly into the air right in front of her, as if they’d struck a solid wall.

Mary stepped around the line, glancing at the cutting projectiles that were seemingly stuck in place. “I was hoping you’d do that. I was worried that if you didn’t, it might mean you were real. That you had some knowledge of what you were dealing with. But I was right from the start — you’re better than I’d guessed, but you’re still just an approximation. One born from legend and distorted memory, not from truth. I don’t know what sort of fool made you,” she sounded bitter, “but they haven’t tampered with the seal.”

The Pale King smiled in return. “The ‘seal’? Is that what they’re telling children these days? Oh, little human. You will soon find that your idea of truth is far from complete. And that while I may have a few tricks born from legend alone,” he plunged his sword into the ground, “that’s only because I can learn.”

The crescents in the air flickered, then surged backward, converging on the sword thrust into the ground. They vanished as they touched it, and as they did, the sword’s blade twisted in the ground, shifting and grinding the stone around it and blackening the air.

When the Pale King pulled the sword free, it was a colossal mass of black metal, no longer showing even a hint of resemblance to the moon-like luster of the original.

Mary took a step back as the Pale King swung. It didn’t help.

His swing drew a horizontal black line through the air as he swept it in a half-circle in front of him. As that line traced along the walls, it tore straight through the stone, dozens of layers of protective runes fracturing and failing at once. Without deeper redundant defenses on the walls of the rooms beyond, it might have cleaved straight through the entire tower.

When his cut struck the air in front of Mary, the same invisible force that had stopped his crescents manifested as a visible shield with a barely visible line now traced across it. The shield seemed to hold—Until he walked closer, shook his head, and blew on it. The top of Mary’s barrier fell off.

She drew and fired.

He let the arrow hit him straight in the necklace. Color bled outward from it for an instant, causing the man to frown, then he shook his head and pointed in her direction.

Mary slammed into the back wall of the room. A transference effect or something similar, strong enough to shake the room — and to hold her inplace, her legs hanging suspended off the floor.

Her arms strained visibly against the force, and she let out a cry as he walked closer, lifting his pitch-black sword and jamming it into the wall next to her ribs. Then, he dragged it closer, inch by inch. Her shroud flared, then failed. Her shield sigils cracked.

Then the sword was cutting into her ribs, leaving blood trailing across her white robes.

“I wish I could say I ended your predecessor like this, but alas, someone beat me to it. I wonder if her allies ever realized.” He leaned in. “Do you yield, little Saint?”

“I’m not the Saint,” Mary said with renewed confidence. Her bow, still in her hand, glowed for a moment—The Pale King reached up, grabbed it, and tore it out of her hands, tossing it to the floor. “None of that. Now, what do you mean?”

“I meant what I said. I don’t think I’m meant to be the next Saint. But,” she gave a soft smile, “I think she might be the Hero.”

Mary snapped her fingers—And the grey aura suffusing the room gave way to Vermillion.

The Pale King recoiled as the room’s color shifted, spinning and swinging his colossal sword at a figure who manifested in the air behind him.

Vermillion Rose flicked her own sword to the right, a minimalist and effortless movement, and drove the Pale King’s sword into the ground.

Then her sword flicked up to his neck. “Your move, Ashen Lord.”

His eyes focused on the young woman in front of him, taking in her short red hair and the determination in her expression…then, his expression softened. “Is it truly you?”

“Can’t say I know what you mean, but if you’re talking about that Hero business, I genuinely have no idea.”

The Pale King chuckled. “That sounds like you.”

He glanced backward at Mary, for a moment, who was reaching for her bow, then shook his head. “That won’t be necessary.”

Mary’s eyebrow went up. “What’s that supposed to mean?”

“I don’t know who made this,” he waved in Rose’s direction, “but I won’t fight her. I keep my promises.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?” Rose pulled her sword back, stepping into a guard stance, then, then circling to get in front of Mary. She lookedwary, but more than that…annoyed, maybe?“It means, my dear,” he bowed his head to Rose, “from one fake to a pair of others, I offer my unconditional surrender.”

With that, he stood up straight, sheathed his sword, and shattered like glass.

I blinked, confused. Rose and Mary blinked right along with me. “…Huh,” Mary said. “That raises questions.”

“Yeah, you think?” Rose’s jaw tightened, sheathing her sword. “We need to talk to whoever summoned him.”

“Later.” Mary said. “For now…”

The room brightened, darkness fading. “…I think we won?”

“Yay,” Rose said entirely without enthusiasm.

***I sat looking at the mirror with a frown. “…Do you have any idea what that was all about?”

Len stood up. “I have ideas, but nothing conclusive. I don’t think it’s my place to share them.”

“Ugh. Secrets.” I groaned.

“You’re one to talk.” Len smiled. “You have quite a few of your own.” “That’s—” I pondered. “True, I guess.”

“Can’t chat. Need to go escort the girls back to the audience chamber.” “Was…whatever	happened	with	Rose	there…allowed?	She’s	like,another contestant entirely, right?”

“That’ll be discussed. It’s likely to come down to the exact mechanism by which Rose appeared in the room. If Rose came in through her own abilities, it’s not likely to be considered a valid move. If Mary summoned her, it’s possible, but humans can’t usually summon other humans. Something as simple as Mary carrying a return bell anchor for Rose wouldn’t be allowed, but…” Len shook her head. “I have to go.”

“Bring them here, maybe?”

“We’ll see how they feel after this. Mary probably needs rest.” I nodded. “That’s reasonable.”

I wanted answers, but I could understand needing a break after the match. Mary’s injuries didn’t look particularly severe, but it was hard to tell how hard she’d been rattled by being slammed against the wall, or if beingcut along the ribs by the Pale King’s transformed sword might have done more than just leaving an ordinary wound.

On this rare occasion, I actually got what I was hoping for. Len returned only a few minutes later, trailing Mary and Vermillion behind her.

“Hey,” I said from the couch. “You did great in there.”

“Not really.” Mary shook her head, slipping the circlet off her head. It briefly got stuck in her hair, so Vermillion helped her work its way out before handing it off to me. “At the start, maybe. But someone knew a little too much about how best to counter my abilities, much like you mentioned for your match. I had to make a move I was hoping to save for the last round.”

“Summoning Rose?” I asked.

“Yeah.” She frowned briefly. “Was it like that for you, too? Someone trying to draw out your best moves before you wanted to show them?”

I considered that. “I don’t know. Could have been a long-term strategy like that. Could have just been a direct counter to certain mana types I was known to have. It didn’t seem as…personal, as whatever that was with the Pale King?”

I left the implication open. Mary nodded amiably. Vermillion tensed, her hands tightening.

“That was a low blow,” Vermillion said. “Someone has to be followin’ us, Mary. That was…”

“That’s not the only answer.” Mary shook her head. “Our ‘patron’ knew about all that, too.”

“Don’t think he’s got a good reason to mess with us here.”

“Not what I meant.” Mary paused, considering. “It’s more like…I think there are a few ways people could figure it out. I haven’t been keeping the bow hidden. You’re not hiding your sword, either. People could recognize things, make connections.”

Vermillion frowned. “With what little they know, what’re the odds o’ that?”

“It’s not about odds,” Len said. “It’s about opposition research. And Dalenos has Seers. They’re not just good for brief glimpses into the future. Many of them are scholars, and they’re a little less culturally resistant to talking about other continents than people from Valia.”

“I think I’m catching about a third of this,” I said. “You two have a personal investment in the Pale King, who is somehow connected with yourweapons. Enemy of their previous wielders or something?” “That’s a lot more than a third,” Vermillion grumbled.

“See what I mean? Just a bit of context and he’s got most of it.” Mary shook her head. “To answer your question, Corin, the ‘Pale King’ is Kaldwynian translation for the ‘Ashen Lord’, the King of Fiends, an extraplanar species that conquered most of the continent of Dania about four hundred and thirty years ago.”

I frowned at the timing. That wasn’t far from the time of the exodus from Mythralis to Kaldwyn or the weirdness with Keras’ homeland. Certainly could be a coincidence, but I didn’t want to count on it. “And your weapons were used to fight him?”

“Right. You know the stories. Party of legendary heroes, traveling to save the world and all that. My older sister ended up with this bow, then handed it off when—”

“Don’t think he needs ‘ta know this much, Mary.” Vermillion shook her head.

“He’s a friend,” Mary responded. “We could use friends right now,” she added a little quieter, but still clearly audible.

Was I a friend?I was pretty sure I wasn’t, at least by my standards, but I was trying to be better about that kind of thing.

Rather than push too much, I replied, “I was happy to help. Sorry the circlet didn’t work out.”

“It did its job. Good chance it helped save me in there, too. I think it did make him weaker, even if didn’t break Shining Alone’s effects.”

It took me a moment to place the name, then I remembered that Shining Alone was the name of the Pale King’s amulet. It supposedly “time locked” him, giving him a formidable form of stasis-based effect that allowed him to function, but without being changed by outside effects. It was breakable— Keras had proven that against the version he’d fought — but obviously that had been just a facsimile of the real thing.

Which was, it seemed, still the case with this guy…but maybe a bit lessso?“About that. He seemed to be acting like he was trying to convince youhe was real. Intimidation tactic, or…?”

“He did what now?” Vermillion asked, turning to Mary. “You didn’t say that.”

“You saw the end of it,” Mary replied. “Surrendering as soon as he saw you? That’s weird, Rosie.”

She growled. “And not very fair.”

“You mean because she got an unfair advantage?”

“Course not. I mean it’s unfair I didn’t even get to take a shot at ‘em. Ugh.” Vermillion threw up her hands. “Do you have any idea how much it’d be worth to fight a good copy of the actual Ashen Lord? When we go home—”

“Rosie,” Mary interrupted. “Now you’re oversharing.”

I frowned. “Are you implying this extraplanar ‘Lord of Fiends’ is like… around and active?”

They both went silent.

“Lovely,” I said with a sigh. I turned to Len, “You’ve been quiet.” “I’m mostly debating if it’s worth letting Keras know about this.”

Vermillion tensed again, her hand drifting toward her sword, but she didn’t say anything.

“I think he’s busy enough,” I replied, trying to read the source of the reaction and failing. Not enough context. “Maybe after the current world- ending threat is dealt with.”

“I was coming to the same conclusion,” Len said with a sigh. “Girls, I should advise you against using that summoning technique again. They let it slide for this match, but if you keep using it, it’ll look like Mary can’t win her fights alone.”

“We know,” Mary said. “That’s why I wanted to save it.” “How’d you pull it off?” I asked. “Return anchor?”

She shook her head. “It’s, uh, unusual magic?” “Danian magic? Essence sorcery?”

“You really have been overplayin’ yer hand,” Vermillion remarked. “Not my fault. This is a lot of pressure. And he’s a friend,” she repeated. “Uh-huh. He’s also not Kuro.”

Mary recoiled. “I wasn’t trying to—”

“You were, you just didn’t think it. I don’t blame ya.” Vermillion reached out, ruffling Mary’s already messy hair. “I miss ‘em, too. But we can’t just stick someone else in as our third like that and expect it to be the same. You can’t fix a wagon with a broken wheel.” She turned to me. “No offense.”

“Not offended.” I frowned. “Not a broken wheel, either, but I get the analogy. Puzzle piece that doesn’t fit.”

“More about function than form, but yeah. Maybe a wheel that’s the wrong size. But we’re overexplainin’. Yer not the same person he was.” Rose turned back to Mary. “Hurts us both, but—”

“It’s not that.” Mary’s face twisted. “Not just that, anyway. We really do need help, Rosie. This is too much for just us. It was too much even for Belle and Briar, and they…”

Tears welled up in her eyes. Vermillion reached over, wiping them away. “Easy, there. Might be that they’re okay.”

“They probably aren’t.”

I didn’t know the exact details about what was happening, but I knew a thing about worrying about losing siblings, and I got the impression this was very similar.

I was about to say that very fact when, in this rare circumstance, I realized I’d be playing into exactly the type of “replacing a lost friend” idea that Vermillion was being so critical about. So, I held my tongue on that, and simply flipped back to focusing on the subject at hand.

“I’m sorry that this is hard for you. If you need allies, I’m happy to keep helping. Maybe make you some more tools before your next match.”

“That’d…be good.” Mary stepped back from Rose, wiping her eyes with her own sleeve. “Thank you. I already owe you for today. And…before anything else alarming happens, maybe we can get that out of the way?”

I nodded. “If you’re up for it. Do you need to be healed first?” I gestured at her bloodstained robes.

“Oh.” She blinked. “Already got a healer before I came here, I just haven’t changed. Sorry. That’s a little embarrassing.”

I shook my head. “A little blood doesn’t bother me. Okay. If you’re ready?”

She nodded. “Ready when you are.”

I tapped the Belt of Swords on my waist. Vermillion tensed as a sword appeared in my hand.

I flipped Selys-Lyann over, handing it to Mary by the hilt.

She took a seat on the couch, frowning. Then, her eyes flashed, her irises overwhelmed by a swirling mixture of black and gold.

I blinked at the sudden change. It was almost like what Keras’ eyes looked like when he was getting serious in a fight, with the silver flaring upin his eyes.

He’d mentioned something about worrying about his eyes changing to gold at some point, too.

Resh, need more context on that.

“You’re not kidding about the banishment effect. This is one of the strongest ones I’ve ever felt. I couldn’t do it, even with my bow.” Mary ran a hand along the hilt, pausing at the jewel on the pommel. “The spirit is housed here?”

I nodded. “I think so.”

“I don’t think I can safely wake him up now. If he woke up at all, the banishment would tear him apart. But…I can work on the seal.”

“Seal?” I asked.

“Another form of magic, but one that’s often paired with banishment. Banishment to send someone away and weaken them, seals to keep them stuck there. I’m guessing whoever did this had a seal built into the same spell effect. That’s advanced, but not all that unusual.”

I nodded. I’d heard a bit about sealing magic before, but I wasn’t sure if she was using the term differently than how I’d heard it used, especially given that she was clearly dealing with foreign magic. It sounded pretty straightforward, similar to what I’d heard about the protective magic that kept the Maker of Monsters from escaping, or the seals that Keras used to keep his own power restrained. “Can you tell what kind of condition the spirit is in?”

“Already healing, I think.” She nodded. “Whatever you’ve been doing is probably working, but without undoing the seal, he’d still be stuck in an inactive state.”

“…Good that I came to you, then.”

She smiled. “Good for us both, I think. Can I hold onto this for a while?”

I hesitated. “Why?”

“Given the scale of the seal, I think I’m going to need to do multiple rituals to try to break it. That takes time and materials I don’t have here. I’ll ask around, make some deals, but it could take quite a while to get everything together.”

I blinked, considering. “…Can I watch when you do the unsealing ritual?”

Mary looked at Vermillion. The latter shook her head.

“Sorry,” Mary said. “Probably not. Best place for doing this would be our bedroom, and that’s, uh, a bit…”

“Yeah, no, I get it.” I took a breath. “How long would it take to work onit?”

“I could probably get it back to you in a month or so? I honestly don’tknow. I’ll do a test ritual tonight with minimal materials, try to see if I can gauge it better, but…”

I winced and turned to Len. “How soon is my next match?”

“Not sure, but it’ll probably be at least a couple weeks. Less than a month, unless something changes.”

“That’s…actually longer than I expected.”

“Things are complicated. For most people, the wait is going to be even longer. In your case, it’s being expedited both by your allies and your enemies.”

Vermillion gave me a sympathetic look. “Oh, that’s familiar.”

I chuckled. “Yeah. Okay. I can go without the sword for one match. I’d rather have it for the finale. This one shouldn’t be too hard.”

“Famous last words.” Vermillion smirked. “Rosie!” Mary glared at her.

“Hey, just sayin’. It’s like telling the universe, ‘nothing could possibly go wrong’. You’re askin’ for it, now.” She laughed. “Not that I’d mind the challenge, in your place. Luck, Corin.”

“Thanks.” I stood and stretched. “As long as I get a reasonable opponent, I won’t need it.”

I probably shouldn’t have challenged the universe a second time.

***It was another three weeks before my second round of the Emerald Trials. Part of that was continued updates to the trial chamber…and part of it was politics.

More of the delegates were beginning to arrive from each nation, but much more slowly than originally projected, even accounting for longer travel time in the places that didn’t have train-based travel.

The war was a part of that, of course. Battles were exploding across the continent, and I’d heard a few stories about the first major clashes, but more significant to the delays were blockades.

Each nation was staking out territories within the Unclaimed Lands and had ways of preventing easy passage through those territories. Many ofthose were physical barriers — raising colossal walls of stone, metal, or glass — but others were more insidious, like areas with zones of void, or places that redirected teleportation attempts directly into monster-filled wilds.

And speaking of monster-filled wilds? The Unclaimed Lands were still filled with them. At least two groups of delegates heading to the council had simply vanished, and though some nations were pointing fingers at each other, others believed that the Unclaimed Lands was simply extracting its own toll on those who had dared to try to cross it casually. The Tails of Orochi still had several bases of operations in the Unclaimed Lands, and though I hadn’t heard any direct stories of anyone encountering them, it was very likely they were making plays of their own during the movements of troops throughout the area.

All in all, that gave me more time to train, but it also made me feel deeply self-conscious about not being present directly on the battlefield.

Everything I’d ever heard about House Cadence in wartime related to our battlefield presence. We were supposed to be warriors, duelists…And I was sitting comfortably in a tower, trading jabs with Sera and deflecting jokes about Satsuki missing me back at home. It didn’t feel right.

Still, I tried to tell myself that rationally, I had a different role. Not because I was a non-combatant as an Enchanter, but because I was on the political stage now, and I had a role to play in the negotiations that would follow when the council convened—If it ever did.

With three days of extra training, I’d managed to push my Arbiter attunement’s mana up to 524. That was close to my mana total from when I fought my father — and that was without counting my Enchanter attunement and transcendence mark.

When I finally had access to those again, I’d be nearing Citrine-level in mana…but I wasn’t there just yet. Still, I was feeling pretty confident when I stepped into the dueling chamber.

Even if I wasn’t close to Emerald, I had nearly Emerald mana available to me. I had twelve batteries worth 360 mana each, for a total of 4,320. And, while I wasn’t planning to draw from their mana pools if I didn’t need to, both my scale armor and Bright Reflection were Citrine-level items, each holding a similar amount to my battery total. Between all that, Ieffectively had an Emerald-level mana pool to work with…just not an Emerald’s full ability set.

I still couldn’t measure up to an Emerald’s physical benefits from having secondary mana, but my speed from two compounding transference attunements actually made me faster than many of the people I was sparring with, since not every attunement provided much of a significant speed benefit at each level.

I was comfortable sparring against nearly any attunement. Sera had set up practice matches for me to spar against virtually everyone in the Valian delegation, and I’d handled them okay. Obviously someone in a serious match would be going harder, but I’d be fighting harder, too.

As far as I was concerned going in, the biggest threats were multi- attuned physical fighters and other people who had tricks I couldn’t anticipate.

As it turned out, I’d left one very big danger off the list.

I stepped into a larger dueling chamber. This one was more elaborate, the floor and walls made of translucent crystals, with massive prisms jutting out in dozens of places around the room.

I stepped through my door, hearing it click closed behind me, and rested Bright Reflection against my shoulder.

My opponent stepped in through the opposite door, his own expression falling as he saw me.

“Oh. Corin. It’s you.”

Ruto “Lute” Muramasa gave me a sad smile, drawing his own sword from his waist. “I am… so very sorry about this.”

