CHAPTER XIV – ALL DUE CAUTION

A woman in the Dalenos section shot to her feet after my declaration, but Warren Constantine gave her a glance and shook his head.

“Lord Cadence, please keep any discussion to the matters at hand — there will be plenty of time for political statements later, provided that you earn it. And Lady Morino, please be seated. Does anyone have objections to this boy’s claimed qualification for Emerald-level?”

I frowned at the presence of someone representing Dalenos. I’d been told their delegation hadn’t arrived yet, and Sera had double-checked just a day earlier…but I supposed it was possible that some people had arrived in advance of the main force. We’d found some people present when we arrived in the Valian chambers, after all.

Or, perhaps, we’d simply been misinformed.

“No objections from Caelford’s delegation,” a black-skinned woman said, drawing all eyes toward her. I realized I’d seen her earlier, standing near Nakht and Farren when we’d entered. “Obviously, if anyone would know if Corin Cadence wasn’t really an Emerald, it would be one of his teachers, right? So, if Miss Farren isn’t going to point out that Corin clearly couldn’t have reached Emerald by now, no one else is going to, right? Right!” She clapped her massive black gauntlets once to conclude her message, sending a ringing sound across the room that was so loud that I cringed in response. If she’d noticed the impact, her face showed no sign.

Hannah Meiyer stood up in response. “Well, if Miss Clarent speaks for Farren, who believes that Corin meets his qualifications, Edria will, of course, not gainsay them on the matter. We do, however, have pertinent questions on other issues—”

Warren stood up, waving a lazy hand. “Sit down, it’s not the time for that.”

“Respectfully, spire lord, the declaration that he is a wielder changes the entire calculus of his presence, and if there is any truth to it—”

“It’s true.” I spoke to her directly. “At least, as true as it can be for anyone who only has a fraction of a broken sacred sword. Since, as we all know, Flowbreaker was broken centuries ago.”

I kept the implication obvious, but unspoken. I wasn’t sure exactly who knew that there was something analogous going on with Diamantine — Edria’s own famous sacred sword — and that they had split it up deliberately, with near-catastrophic results. The royal family’s control of Diamantine was a part of their claim toward divine right of rulership. If Hannah claimed that only having a part of a sacred sword did not make someone a wielder, that same claim could be applied to the legitimacy of the Edrian throne.

I was letting Hannah know that I knew. This was a risk as an opening move, but as long as I didn’t press the issue, hopefully it would help solidify my claim to be Keras’ apprentice — since Keras knew that secret, and Hannah knew that Keras knew that — without putting Edria in a position where they felt threatened.

Sera had offered the strategy, and from what I saw from Hannah’s eyes narrowing, the message had gotten through. Whether or not it was a wise message to send was a completely different matter.

“Of course. We all know the legends of Flowbreaker. If I could be given a chance to authenticate your sword as a piece of Flowbreaker, perhaps we could skip this preliminary business altogether, since your status as a wielder—”

“East Edria would prefer to see a demonstration of the boy’s skills, wielder or not,” a sitting woman said quietly, her hands folded in her lap. She wore some sort of formal white robes with the symbol of the God Phoenix stitched into them in crimson.

“Dalenos concurs.” The speaker was another figure from the Dalenos section, perhaps a year or two older than me. He wore two swords — and two shrouds. If the other Dalenos representative had looked enraged to hear my claims, this one merely looked amused. “Let him fight. We’ll all have days to ask questions after that, provided he survives even a single round.”

I wasn’t the only one who reacted strongly. Hannah Meiyer’s jaw tightened. “Yes. I’ll have plenty of time to ask him if he survives.”

I suddenly felt like Hannah’s questioning was a little more immediately relevant than I’d realized.

Was…there really a risk of lethality in this first round of testing? I hadn’t gotten the impression that the monsters would be that dangerous. Was there something I was missing?I gave Warren a questioning look. He simply shrugged.

“Well, given that there are no actual objections to his qualifications as an Emerald, we can get the show started, can’t we? Right. Come this way, C….Corin, was it?” He frowned. “Yes, of course. My student. Your test begins shortly. The rest of you can wait here and watch.”

“I’ll take him to the test room, Master Constantine,” Len offered, standing and beating Warren to the podium where I was standing. “You needn’t bother yourself.”

“Yes, yes, of course. I’ll just…sit for a bit.” He slumped back down in a different chair than where he’d started, but in the same general segment of the room. I thought I caught the woman who had been called “Clarent” giving him an appraising look.

Worrying. Has he been using mental magic without an attunement again? And…if so, how has he been pulling that off? He’s probably using crystal marks, but I still haven’t…“This way, Corin.” Len led me out a back door to the room, then down a hallway.

I glanced backward as we walked. “Thoughts?”

“That went about as well as it could have, but you might have pushed Hannah more than necessary. She’s going to be interested now, but your tone made it obvious you have information you’re holding over her, which…well, given the people in the room, might not be the worst thing. But I wouldn’t make that gamble in a larger crowd.”

I winced. “Understood.”

“I think it was fine, but you should be aware that she’ll follow up, and potentially not in a way that you want. Blackmail can be effective, but I’d advise against pushing that angle further. There may still be a chance at a genuine ally if you can pursue the ‘similar situation’ angle with a bit more subtlety.”

“I’m not great with subtlety.”

She turned back to me. “Then learn. Provided, of course, you’re in any condition to do so after this.”

“Is there something you’re not telling me? I thought I’d be pulled out if it looked too dangerous.”

“Accidents happen, Corin. And in a situation where someone just bombed your train, I think you should expect that accidents are going to happen here more often than not.”

I sighed. “Sounds like my last couple years. Okay. Any last bits of advice?”

“You can turn off the Emerald-level shroud now.”

I blinked. “Right.” I swapped my attunement settings back to a Sunstone-level shroud.

She nodded. “Good. Beyond that, it’s in your hands. I’ll simply wish you luck.”

“Can I put an item like a teleportation anchor right out here, or would that be considered cheating?”

“No, that should be fine. Nothing against leaving items here in the rules, as far as I’m aware, but leaving the room would be considered a loss.”

I reached into my bag and handed her a teleportation anchor for my circlet, just in case. “…Okay. Follow up question. If retreating is disqualified, does that mean you can leave the door open?”

“I don’t think that’s expressly disallowed.” She frowned. “Why?” I set down my dimensional bag.

Then, piece by piece, I began to unload my inventory. I adjusted both of my shield sigils — Patrick had returned my second sigil to me for the match— and took a deep breath.

“In that case…I might be able to keep my Emerald-level shroud on for a while after all.”

***The room was pitch black when I walked in, but not for long.

I cracked my neck, then snapped my fingers. The gesture was unnecessary, but demonstrative — a sheathed sword flew from outside the room to my hand, as if pulled by an invisible cord.

…Which was mostly what had happened, since most people couldn’t see the dozens of mana threads that were leading out the door.

I caught the sheathed sword easily in spite of the dark, my mana thread giving me an intuitive sense of the sword’s location and velocity.

I heard something move to my right as the sheath impacted my right hand, so I drew with my left. Brilliant golden light bathed the chamber asBright Reflection practically flew out of the sheath. I took a single step back to dodge a monstrous claw from a human-sized mantis with a pitch- black shell. The creature hissed and reared back as the light blinded it and smoke began to rise from its chitinous shell.

Haste.

I didn’t bother with Accelerated Computation — not yet. Not if I didn’t need it.

I stepped in, swinging Bright Reflection, and used a burst of transference to add additional kinetic energy to my swing. My borrowed sword cut the mantis from neck to waist, spraying acidic ichor, which my renewed Emerald shroud deflected without difficulty.

“Next,” I said evenly.

I’d like to think I looked pretty impressive, but that had just been the Quartz-level monster. There would be one of each level from Quartz to Emerald, if everything went the way Sera’s investigation indicated it would. Something looking like a bear with the head of an ant appeared in the back of the room and reared up on its hind legs. It looked fairly formidable, probably some kind of manifestation of one of the Buried, with powerful claws and extremely sharp pincers. There were some spikes on its back, too.

I judged the distance to the creature — and thus across the room — to be about sixty feet. Then, I pointed my sword at its center of mass, discarded Bright Reflection’s sheath, and put both hands on the hilt as I connected another mana thread to the runes that powered it.

With a thought, rather than the usual verbal commands, I sent a torso- width blast of light across the room. Bright Reflection’s beam tore straight through the creature’s chest, leaving a gaping and smoking hole. It fell and vanished.

“Ne—”

Frozen hands grabbed my ankles from below the floor. Ice began to spread across my legs.

As the half-corporeal monster held me in place, another entity appeared in the middle of the chamber — a massive and muscular man that appeared to be made entirely out of compressed fire, save for two obsidian horns.

Is…that a shade of Ifrit, the guardian of the Fire Temple?Well, that escalated quickly. At least it’s not the real thing — he’s supposed to be somewhere around the same power range as Mizuchi. He’d crack me like an egg.

My grip on my sword tightened.

The false Ifrit looked at me and let out a booming laugh.

“What is this? A mere boy child?” His fists beat against his chest and smoke blasted outward from his body, beginning to spread across the entire room.

I waved a hand absently, sending a burst of transference outward to keep the smoke from enveloping my location, then cleaved downward. A third hand reached up and grabbed my sword blade before I could cut through the ones that were grappling me. I blinked as the blade began to freeze over.

Oh, come on, another hand? That’s—“Hahaha! You look cold, little one! Let me warm you!”

Ifrit lowered his massive shoulders and drew one foot across the floor, melting straight through the ground. Then, he charged.

I pulled on the mana thread attached to Selys-Lyann, which was still on my hip, and flicked the wrist of my free hand. The ice from my legs shattered and flew across the room as I reshaped it with Selys-Lyann’s power, but the shards weren’t strong enough to have the impact I wanted. They melted almost completely in the fire creature’s aura, the resulting impact barely slowing the monster as it barreled across the room with tremendous speed.

Jump.

I heard a crack from the wrists below me as I applied my ring’s power to launch myself upward. The first attempt dislodged the hands, then a second jump carried me into the air.

There was a hiss as the creature below me began to crawl out of the ground, exposing some sort of terrifying half-dead creature with icy skin, four arms, and pitch-black nails.

I hadn’t been expecting undead. Summoners almost never contracted them due to the dangers inherent in the process, so it hadn’t been on my list. Conjurers, who drew from their imagination for monster creations, had no such limitations.

The creature — some sort of ghoul or wight, maybe, although I thought those were more corporeal — pulled itself upward as I soared, its claws elongating to improbable proportions.

Nope. Nope nope. Not letting those cut me.

I shot myself up a bit farther, nearly to the twenty-foot-high ceiling.

I felt a jerk; some of my mana threads went taut as I stretched them nearly to their limits against the doorframe. In spite of my training, they remained relatively fragile. They wouldn’t snap at a swift breeze anymore, but making them any more solid had the downside of making them more detectable, which would have ruined the effect I was going for.

Ifrit arrested his charge faster than I’d expected, turning the dead thing’s hands upward and sending a series of three heavy bursts of strangely solid flame in my direction.

Bright Reflection.

I battered all three blasts of flame at the ghoul-like monster below me. The first one blasted straight through one of the creature’s shoulders, setting it on fire from within as it passed through. One of the other blasts melted one of the monster’s legs like candle wax. The third missed.

The creature was down, burning from within, the strange flames spreading rapidly.

Note to self — don’t get hit by those.

That was, of course, the cue for something else to hit me from behind.

A winged monster smashed into me, having manifested in mid-air right behind me and ambushed me without a hint of hesitation. I barely managed to grit my teeth and send out a burst of omnidirectional transference to hurl it off me before I hit the ground, but that was enough to land on my feet. I wobbled, but stood.

If I’d fallen there, I might not have ever made it to my feet again.

I turned and swung at whatever had hit me from behind, but the creature had retreated into the air with absurd speed.

“That ruffled my feathers raw, caw!”

I saw something shining out of a corner of my eye and barely side- stepped fast enough to avoid it.

A sharpened feather embedded itself in the floor, fist-deep. I sent a crescent wave of light in the direction it had come from, but I didn’t even have a chance to look at whatever had hurled it before I heard a roar and thundering steps behind me.

I turned just as the flame creature charged across the ground, wreathed in smoke and moving faster than I could, even with Haste. If I had Transcendent Haste on, perhaps I could have dodged, but…no. It was too much of a risk.

I reached out toward one of my mana threads outside the room, only to find it slack.

Reshing—It was almost on top of me. There was no time.

Accelerated Computation.

The world around me didn’t slow, but it clarified.

Time to impact: 0.2858 seconds. Jump.

I blasted myself backward, Ifrit’s aura singeing me as they passed nearby, but my still-active Emerald-level shroud dispersed most of the harm. My shield sigils did the rest, but visible cracks formed across the first shield in the process.

Ifrit spun on his heels as I passed by him, swinging a punch at my head.

Impact angle—I ducked, bringing my sword down, but it bounced off his wrist.

Jump.

“You are a spry one!” Ifrit’s voice boomed. He pulled his hands together, forming a v-shape facing toward me. Flames began to flicker across his palms, growing brighter.

Not good!I blasted myself backward as a handful of sharpened feathers passed through the space where I’d been a moment before, then flicked my wrist. Selys-Lyann flew out of its scabbard on my belt and straight forward, embedding deep into the flaming creature’s chest.

They roared, ice and mist spreading across the wound, then charged meagain.

I felt my connection to Selys-Lyann’s mana thread and pulled on a fraction of the sword’s power.

Ice Armor.

Frozen plates manifested over my body as Ifrit closed in on me, pulling back a blazing fist.

I might not have been faster without Transcendent Haste, but my timing was perfect.

One…two….

Now.

I slammed an ice-gauntleted hand through the creature’s blazing shroud and punched Selys-Lyann’s hilt, sending a charge of transference manathrough the sword on impact. The blast of mana caused the creature’s half- frozen chest to explode out its back.

It fell to its feet, Selys-Lyann clattering to the floor. The creature then began to stand back up.

“Not...bad…” Ifrit mumbled.

“You too.” Then, I stepped forward, and with a flick of mana toward Selys-Lyann, pulled the sword back upward at an angle across the monster’s throat.

The flames fell silent.

I turned to find the flying monster watching me from above, looking curious, perched high on the wall above the doorway.

She was some kind of winged creature that looked mostly like a human woman, but with bird wings and clawed bird-like talons. Also, feathers instead of hair. Her wings ended in strangely sharp pinions — they looked like they were made out of crystal, rather than ordinary feathers.

A dozen similar pinions hovered in the air around her, free-floating and shining like diamonds.

Some kind of harpy, maybe? It’s possible I should have taken Mara’s monster hunting class. With that kind of speed…she’s probably the Emerald. The conjured Ifrit was throwing around some strong attacks, but he was probably the Citrine.

The maybe-harpy tilted her head at me from her perch on the wall. “Don’t suppose we can call this a draw, caw?”

“I think the stakes are a little higher for me than they are for you, sorry.

Could I ask you to surrender?”

“I cannot so easily withdraw, caw.” She sounded more flippant about it than sad.

I frowned, glancing around the room for other monsters and finding none. “Why?”

She drew her wings back. “Punished if we do not obey the law, caw.”

“…Are you in a situation you can’t get out of? A bad contract? Do you need—”

“Naw, caw.” She waved a clawed wing at me. The floating pinions turned in mid-air toward me, but didn’t move then.

I flipped Selys-Lyann into my hands. “Well, then…Sorry, I don’t think we can call this a draw.”

“Then die at my claw, caw!”

She flapped her wings in my direction, sending dozens of crystal-tipped feathers at me all at once.

I drew mana from some of the lines still connecting outside the room, sending a burst of transference to knock the pinions off course, but they passed right through the transference without resistance.

Impact in 0.4—I swung Bright Reflection to the side in alarm, deflecting as many feathers as I could, but a few slipped through and pierced right through my shield sigil barriers to embed into my ice armor.

Then, the feathers began to glow brighter and brighter.

Oh, that’s never good.

I managed to tear three of the feathers out of my ice armor before they exploded.

Explosions at point-blank range were bad. Fortunately, only two of the feathers were still embedded in my armor at the time they detonated. Of those, one of them was in the ice around my chest, and the explosion largely hit the scale armor that I was wearing under my shirt.

The one on my leg, though?That hurt, even with a regeneration item active to dull the pain immediately.

As my ice armor exploded along with the feather, I felt something sharp pierce my leg. Likely pieces of the feather, but I didn’t have a chance to look, because the harpy-like creature was flying downward at me, more floating pinions already forming in the air around her.

I didn’t know how her feathers were cutting through my defenses, but I did know that I couldn’t risk being hit by more of them, particularly in more vulnerable locations.

The harpy swooped downward, swinging a wing straight at my neck.

Impact angle—I ducked, then lunged with a quick burst of transference pushing me forward, sweeping my sword straight upward. It barely clipped her, but Bright Reflection was a sword infused with potent light and spirit mana, and if she was a conjuration—My sword hit her hip and bounced harmlessly away, deflected by a hardened shroud of shimmering mana. My eyes widened as I blasted myself back and to the side, barely managing to raise my sword in time to deflect a couple more feathers that spun at me. Another one grazed my face, onceagain ignoring my shroud entirely. It wasn’t a significant wound, but the implications of the exchange were concerning.

As she closed in again riding a burst of air, hissing and preparing to strike, I cleaved upward with Bright Reflection and sent a crescent of light in her direction. She flapped out of the way easily, but that bought me some time to move, and for my accelerated mind to process past the pain.

Anti-magic feathers of some kind. Doesn’t look like void, possibly something related to spell reflection like Dawnbringer’s or banishment like Mary’s.

Bright Reflection didn’t tear through her. She’s using a light-imbued shroud.

She’s not a conjuration. There’s more than one person making the monsters for this match.

Counters are…I felt for my other threads.

The one to Jerome Schmidt’s sword, laying outside the room with my other weapons, was broken.

Resh.

My other best options were similarly severed. The void emitters were still connected to Jerome’s sword, but not to me. The string to my umbral mana battery had also been cut.

Without my lines to my mana batteries, I couldn’t maintain my Emerald-level aura much longer, either. I’d been pulling from my grey and transference batteries to keep it going without significantly diminishing my own mana. Given how useless my shroud was proving to be, I could have dropped the shroud to save the mana, but that would have looked strange to observers.

I needed to end this quickly, but my best means of doing so were out of reach.

Then the harpy was nearly on top of me, swinging vast wings like the blades of a guillotine. I parried one wing-swipe, nearly losing Bright Reflection from the force of the impact. Then I hurled a blast of light in her face at close range. She turned her head to the side to avoid it; she wasn’t immune, but the attack still barely distracted her.

She slammed her other wing down. My block wasn’t enough — her massive wing was too large to parry entirely when she used her full strength and she clipped my right arm, leaving a long gouge in my ice armor anddrawing a bit of blood beneath. Then she kicked upward, taloned feet slamming into my chest.

I felt two points where it pierced my chest armor as I fell back, bleeding, and nearly hit the ground.

She’s almost a perfect counter to my abilities. I reached for my threads leading out of the room, trying to feel which ones still were still viable, and began to pull.

The harpy swept a claw down, severing my mana threads in mid-air.

One item tumbled through the doorway. Nothing else even made it thatfar.

“You thought those were a secret, but I saw, caw!” the harpy cackled. I smiled at her. “I’d say your thinking has a bit of a flaw.”

She lunged at me again.

I activated my circlet, teleporting to the anchor that had just barely slidinto the doorway.

Then, as the harpy wheeled around, I hurled Bright Reflection at her. As she dodged into the air, I flung a new mana thread out the doorway and landed it straight on Jeromy Schmidt’s sword.

When she charged again, I was already sending a burst of mana to pull my third sword into my hand.

The harpy descended from the sky, wings aiming new feathers at me.

I jumped up to meet her, drawing the sword in mid-air. My other threads still connected the sword to my void emitters.

I pulled on them as I drew, an overcharged surge of void mana blasting across the sword’s blade as I swept upward, straight across her chest.

The harpy fell to two pieces as I landed, re-sheathing the sword with a satisfying click.

“Caw.”

***I cracked my neck as light returned to the room, rapidly pulling my other swords back to my hands with their threads, then stepping confidently out of the chamber.

That had almost been a disaster.

Sera had prepared me as well as she reasonably could have, using the hours prior to the test to confirm that a Conjurer was the most likely person to be administering the test. She’d tried to broker a deal, too, but there hadn’t been enough time to talk to everyone.

Instead, she’d given me a list of contracted monsters for the known Conjurers, but since Conjurers could theoretically make any monster they could imagine, I knew it wasn’t likely I’d be able to recognize what I was up against.

I hadn’t really needed to. As far as I could tell in retrospect, only the weaker three monsters had been Conjurations. They’d pulled in a Summoner for the last two — or some other contract.

I would have felt very bad if I’d just killed two Soulblade monsters permanently, but given how they’d behaved, I didn’t think it was likely.

That harpy had some kind of light-based anti-magic. Probably banishment. Can Summons even do that?I frowned. It was possible, but since banishment was a classical direct counter to summons, it seemed like it shouldn’t be easy or common. The mana type should have been disruptive to the summon itself.

How did they work around that?And more importantly…did they plan around the knowledge that I’d be using Bright Reflection as an anti-shade weapon, or was that a coincidence? And cutting my mana threads…was that planned from the start?There were people who could have anticipated my plan. Obviously, I’d planned with Sera directly, but I didn’t think she would have sabotaged me. I trusted her.

Elora…I trusted a whole lot less, but I didn’t think she had the motivation to do it.

Who else? Maybe someone who really wanted me gone? Someone like whoever had tried to have me killed on the train?Of course, it could have just been a coincidence. Any Emerald-level Summoner or similar would have some powerful creatures at their disposal. But I didn’t like how directly it had countered my strategy.

Who had been doing research on my capabilities?That was concerning, if true. I’d already known that I had to be careful, but that encounter reinforced it further.

If I’m going to make it through the council, and contribute to the war… I’m going to need more. More power. More tricks that they don’t know.

And I’m going to have to figure out how to counter their own plays, too.

***After gathering up my things and returning most of them to my bag, I kept one battery clipped onto my Belt of Swords, connecting it to a thread to continue fueling my shroud for another few minutes. Hopefully, it would keep me going long enough that I could deal with any follow-up conversation with the council before returning to my room to rest.

Rather than using my bag for my swords, I stored them back in the symbols on my belt. I hadn’t made use of the storage and release functions of the Belt of Swords during the fight for a few reasons, most of which came down to showmanship. But also, setting up the swords outside of the room had allowed me to attach them to the batteries, providing them with extra mana sources. I couldn’t have done that if they’d been stuck inside an extra dimensional space.

…Not at my current skill level, anyway. I briefly debated how difficult it would be to make mana threads that could reach into extra dimensional spaces, but that it was a whole new area of research that I didn’t currently have time for.

Len let me work, then gave me a nod. “Congratulations. It’s just the first step, but your performance was impressive. I think some of the council will be surprised.”

“I don’t suppose you could tell me who provided the monsters I fought?”

“Unfortunately, that would be considered offering you an unfair advantage. My position here is intended to be neutral. If I draw too much attention, it could threaten people in my care.”

She didn’t say anything further, but she didn’t need to. I understood. “I’ll figure it out. Or I won’t. It’s not the most important thing. I’m mostly just curious.”

“Reasonable. Just…don’t get too caught up in finding out and attempting any sort of reprisals. It won’t go well.” She adjusted her glasses. “Now, on to more important matters. Do you require any immediate healing?”

I inspected my wounds. The cut on my cheek was already regenerating. The other cuts were more significant, but nothing urgent. My regeneration from the silver phoenix sigil would handle them eventually. “No. I might not mind having a powerful healer looking me over at some point for other reasons, but these are just scrapes and bruises.”

“Excellent. That will help with your impression on the council further.

This way.”

She led me back to the audience chamber, back to the stage.

Len spoke to the crowd. “You’ve all witnessed Master Cadence’s preliminary challenge. Are there any objections to his qualifications?”

Hannah Meiyer stood back up. “Edria does not object to his Emerald status. We do, however, have questions about his claims to being a wielder, especially in regards—”

“Oh, get off the wielder thing, Edria,” the Valian representative said. “You can quiz him about his frost sword later, this is his Emerald test. Can we stay on topic?”

“Not when we have significant questions about his apparent use of Dawnbringer, in addition to the supposed Flowbreaker. This is more important than an Emerald test and supersedes—”

I raised a hand. “If I may.” Meiyer gave me a curt nod.

“This,” I patted the scabbard, which I’d kept out on my right hip, opposite Selys-Lyann, “is Bright Reflection. It’s a replica of Dawnbringer and I would not insult the true weapon by claiming it to be comparable to the original. It is, however, a replica forged by Keras Selyrian himself, and it could be said to contain a fraction of the original.”

Hannah’s eyebrows narrowed. “And, given your other claim, do you believe that to be enough to call yourself a wielder of Dawnbringer as well?”

I shook my head vehemently. “No, not at all. This sword is not even my own. It properly belongs to Patrick Wayland, my retainer, who is attending the council as a representative of Chancellor Meltlake of Lorian Heights.”

“Chancellor Melt…” Hannah frowned. “You mean Antonia Hartigan?”

I nodded. “That’s correct, although she prefers to use her new title over the Hartigan family name.”

“Right. And this Wayland’s relationship to her?” “He’s her personal apprentice, much as I am Keras’.”

“Should we take that to mean that Keras Selyrian is in an alliance with Antonia Hart—”

“I think we’re getting overly off-topic,” the representative for East Edria said. “The boy has asserted no claim to the title of Wielder of Dawnbringer. The sword belongs to his retainer. Traditionally, one might even make thestatement that the sword belongs to him, as does anything in his retainer’s possession, but even ignoring that, he clearly has the right to borrow something from a retainer for a challenge.”

I gave the unfamiliar East Edrian representative a nod. “That was my conclusion.”

“I do have to wonder why you’d choose to use it over Selys-Lyann, however.”

I made a hint of a frown. I wasn’t sure if I should answer that. “It’s a counter—”

“Irrelevant,” the Valian representative spoke up again. “Can we move on? We have other tests to run.”

“Not many,” Hannah replied. “And none are likely to be this significant.”

“I’m calling a vote,” the Valian said. “All those in favor of letting Master Cadence move on to the next step?”

Hands went up. All of them. Surprisingly, Hannah’s was first, rather than last like I might have expected.

“Very well. In that case,” Len spoke up, “we’re concluded. Congratulations, Master Cadence, on your first step. You are dismissed. We will discuss your second phase of testing with you tomorrow.”

Hannah hadn’t sat down. “We need to talk. Soon.” I nodded to her directly. “I’d like that.”

“No.” She grimaced. “I don’t think you will.”

***I left the room immediately, and found Sera waiting right outside, leaning against a wall. When she saw me, she looked startled at first, then… relieved, maybe?“That was fast.” She tucked a book into her belt. “Was it?” I asked.

“I was expecting a significant discussion. You must have passed very clearly. Or…failed?” She left the question lingering.

“I passed just fine. But we’re going to want to discuss things in private.” “Of course. I’ll lead the way to our new room.”

***We’d been assigned the exact same room — or, rather, set of rooms — that I’d stayed in with Sera last time I’d visited the spire. That must havebeen deliberate, but I wasn’t sure if it was on Sera’s part, Len’s, or Warren’s. I was too tired to ask.

It was as palatial as I remembered, with more than enough space for Sera, Mara, Patrick, and myself to stay comfortably. Patrick had actually been assigned an entire set of chambers to himself, since he had Meltlake’s invitation, but I saw some of his bags already set up in this room and had no objection.

After what had happened on the train, staying with everyone in close proximity felt safest.

First, I set up what I had left of anti-scrying defenses on the room. That wasn’t a lot, since I’d abandoned most of my anti-divination supplies in the destroyed train, but I still had the void emitters. They were heavily drained from overcharging my void sword, but they’d refilled enough to be turned on for a little while.

I checked Warren’s enchantments on the walls themselves and found them functional, but I wanted the redundancy my own defenses provided. Once that was all set up, I filled Sera in on what had happened during the test. She grimaced when she heard about the last two creatures being summons rather than conjurations.

“Do you think Elora summoned them?” I asked.

She shook her head. “No, but the news is worse. I didn’t find out until after I took you to the chamber, but several members of the Dalenos delegation arrived right around when you went in. Best guess? They timed their arrival to be as inconvenient for us as possible, using something like a Seer’s visions and scrying magic to guide them, or perhaps just sending someone ahead.”

I frowned. “This building has significant anti-scrying protection.”

“But anti-seer protections? And keep in mind, they have access to Katashi himself.”

“Ugh. Do you think he’s actively managing their role here?”

“Possibly. Or he could have simply assigned it to someone else he trusts, with a lot of power behind them. Mizuchi, for example, or one of Genbu’s children. They could have the raw power to defeat anti-scrying defenses and centuries of knowledge to strategize better than a human Seer could.”

I grimaced. “Do we have any way of matching that? Get Seiryu into this?”

“No, I don’t think we could count on Seiryu or Suzaku’s direct help.

One of their children, maybe. But the only one I have access to…” “Satsuki. She’s not really much for spying or countering spies, is she?” “Well, murder is a counter to spies.” Sera gave me a soft smile.

“I guess it is. Might not be the solution we need right at this moment, though. You planning to bring her over here later?”

“Very likely, but not right away. Let’s refocus. I can look into adding onto this place’s anti-scrying protections, but that’s something plenty of other people will be thinking about and working on.”

“Isn’t that exactly the kind of assumption that causes security failures? ‘Someone else is clearly going to be doing this, since it’s obvious and important?’ That sort of thing?”

“While ordinarily I’d agree with you, we both know Master Constantine is…sensitive about outside observation. If something beat his defenses, he’ll already be planning counters, looping in Len. I can ask about it, though.”

I nodded. “Okay. Back to the match. Who do you think brought in that monster?”

“I don’t know. My best guess is that they have an Emerald-level Summoner that wasn’t on the list — or maybe a multi-attuned Conjurer that is capable of creating things with light or even banishment. I remember one of the Dalenos Six being a multi-attuned Summoner in Keras’ story.”

“Is it even possible to conjure something with opposite mana types like that?” I asked.

“Technically, sure. Visages use all of the mana types. God beasts, too, supposedly. They have specializations, but they have access to all of it. Mizuchi was capable of using opposing elements — we saw that in her shroud composition. It’s generally only seen at the top of the power scale, though. It requires great skill to summon someone or something with mixed mana types, since you need to have a significant quantity of a stabilizing intermediary mana type as well, and then the control to make sure that they don’t mix improperly. It would be harder for a Conjurer than a Summoner, even with multiple attunements in play, but I think it’s doable. I’ll look into it.” She frowned. “You should get those injuries treated. And change. It doesn’t look good for you to walk around wounded.”

“Ah. Right.” I took a breath. “Is it okay if I just…kind of hide in here for a while, though? Today has been…a lot.”

“You’re going to need to talk to Hannah Meiyer at some point. She’s not going to be happy about what you’ve implied, but it’s an opening, and it could be a good one.” She patted her own leg, then stood up. “I’ll look into it further. Get that rest. You deserve it.”

“…Not sure I should rest, exactly. Not by myself.” “Want Vanniv?” she asked.

“That might be a bit much.”

“I’ll send Mara up to keep watch, then.” “Not Patrick?” I asked.

“I found a healer to work on him some more, now that things are calm.

He’s better than he was, but…”

I nodded immediately. “Of course.”

Sera headed out after that. I spent a while just breathing heavily, processing. Then, eventually, I made myself move. I changed into pajamas, pinned my shield sigils on, set Selys-Lyann by my bedside, then got in bed.

Mara arrived not long after. “Heard you had quite a scrap.”

I waved a hand connected to a mana string, tossing her Bright Reflection. She caught it deftly with her remaining hand, looking startled at her own reaction.

“Let me fill you in.”

I told her what had happened — and, perhaps more importantly, that Hannah Meiyer was present…and seemed to have two hands. She didn’t say anything, but I could tell she was thinking about it.

If Hannah had found a way to get another functioning hand that worked for her, maybe Mara could do the same.

After I filled her in, she agreed to keep watch.

I worried that I wouldn’t be able to sleep with all the stress, but when she fiddled with dials that adjusted the lighting levels of the room downward and filled the room with chilled air, my eyes closed quickly, and comforting darkness found me shortly thereafter.

