CHAPTER XVIII – DALENOS DUEL

Mary stepped into the arena cautiously, watching the opposite side of the room. There was no magical darkness this time, but the room itself had changed, with blue crystals glowing on the walls and hexagonal pillars of varying heights strewn throughout the chamber.

Not the best setup for an archer, with so many impediments to line-of- sight.

I watched from the same vantage point as before, gazing into Len’s mirror from a room away from the main chamber. Mary looked nervous, but resolute.

Her opponent entered at the same time she did…and he wasn’t ideal. Not as bad of a matchup as Lute had been for me, certainly, but definitely not the type of match an Abjurer would prefer.

He wore long, traditional Artinian-style robes belted with what looked like a blue rope with an unusually elaborate knot. On the rope was a pair of wooden scabbards, each with beautiful etchings in the sides. Not runes, as far as I could tell — just language. There were enchantments on the scabbards, but their runes were probably on the insides, pressing against the blades.

He wasn’t much older than we were, maybe in his early twenties, but he already had dozens of tiny scars on his cheeks and neck. His hair was shoulder-length and black, bound back in a single ponytail. His eyes were half-open, as if perpetually sleepy, but his expression was serious. His right hand sat on the belt at his waist, in between the two scabbards.

I didn’t recognize him, but I knew who he was. Sera had continued to gather information on each of the combatants — and this time, they hadn’t caught us blind.

Takeshi Kurita had been one of the Dalenos Six during the Tournament of the Sacred Sword ten years in the past. He was a dual-attuned Championand Swordmaster that had given Keras more than a bit of trouble.

This was his son, Takeshi Tetsurin. Who, in a shocking coincidence or more likely a case of startling nepotism, somehow happened to have exactly the same two attunements as his father.

I wondered if Katashi had handed those two attunements out personally, for services the father had made to Dalenos. I couldn’t exactly complain — it would have been incredibly hypocritical, considering Katashi had handed me an attunement myself — but the inconsistency in the system itself certainly deserved a bit of attention, even if I’d benefitted from it.

Anyway, Tetsurin was young, but already had worked his way into a very high rank in the Dalenos dueling circuit. He wasn’t one of the Dalenos Six. I assumed at first that he was present along with his father, and proving he was ready to work with that elite group. Strangely, Sera hadn’t mentioned anything about his father being present with the other members of the Dalenos Six, but it was possible that a warrior like Kurita was either retired or part of the war effort. I didn’t know if he’d be showing up later.

What I did know is that Mary wasn’t the only one borrowing equipment. And not just from friends and familyTakeshi Tetsurin, along three other candidates from Dalenos, had been loaned equipment by Katashi himself.

Now that…That felt a little like cheating.

I tensed as Tetsurin waited for Mary to make her move, keeping his sandals planted near the doorway. He still looked sleepy and disinterested.

I could see why. I mean, it was probably an intimidation tactic. But beyond that, he was genuinely a bad matchup for an Abjurer. With compounding Enhancement-focused attunements, he was pretty much the worst possible scenario for someone who focused on dispelling magic. He used magic, sure, but most of that would be focused on enhancing his own abilities. That could still be theoretically dispelled, but the barrier of the skin made that much harder. External spells, especially things like summoned monsters, were much easier to counter with banishment.

From Mary’s grip on her bow, I suspected she’d sensed the same. “Begin,” a voice called.

Mary pulled back her bow. Tetsurin blew softly into the air.

Mist formed around his position, spreading across the room. Mary’s first arrow disappeared into the mist as it spread, tearing a hole through the obscuring mana as it passed, but meeting nothing before it harmlessly struck the back wall.

The mist continued to spread.

Mary pulled back her bow and fired. Her arrow flew upward, then arced down, splitting into six in mid-air. Each tore a new gash into the mist, cutting down the hiding places, but finding no sign of the opponent.

Tetsurin rushed out of the right side of the mist, already almost close enough to strike. Mary fired an arrow at him point-blank, but he snapped it out of the air with the back of his hand, wincing only briefly at the contact. Then, when he was in striking distance, his hand flew to the first sword on his hip.

He drew the longer of his swords in a single motion, the blade a strange dark grey color. Mary blocked the swing with her bow. Not a move I’d typically advise, but her spirit-bonded weapon was tougher than an ordinary weapon. The sword didn’t cut through it, but the force of the impact blasted Mary backward, clear across the room.

She loosed arrows again and again as she slid backward across the floor, but Tetsurin didn’t bother deflecting them now. Instead, as he raised the grey sword, it emitted a pulse that pulled the arrows toward it, causing them to vanish into the blade’s surface.

Tiny arrow-like symbols appeared on the grey sword’s surface. I blinked.

Spell absorption? Like Ceris, but for multiple spells?I wasn’t the only one reverse engineering ancient artifacts, apparently. Katashi had held Ceris for centuries. It would have been absurd if he hadn’t figured out how it worked at some point.

I just…hadn’t expected him to hand out something with that kind of capability for someone to just borrow for a duel.

A bad matchup to worse. I grimaced.

If Mary was feeling the pressure from the same realization I’d made, she didn’t show it. She snapped her fingers instead.

Nothing visible happened. Tetsurin closed in, swinging again. Mary ducked beneath it —And the arrows she’d fired into the fog earlier emerged, arcing directly for Tetsurin’s exposed back.

He swung around, seeming to sense them at the last moment, and deflected three arrows with the flat of his blade. Two vanished, making new symbols.

The third didn’t.

A limit.

Mary must have realized it at the same time I did — and swept out with her left hand in a cutting motion. Her shroud followed the movement of her hand, sweeping out like a scythe.

Tetsurin parried her shroud.

Mary’s eyes widened as the shroud froze in place against the grey- bladed sword.

Tetsurin scowled at Mary, his face dripping with disdain. “You wear the garb of a miko, but you are unworthy.”

He shoved his sword upward, the motion lifting Mary’s shroud up and her along with it, sending her teetering back toward the arena wall. As she stumbled, he swung again, out of melee reach…and released the nine gleaming arrows he’d stored inside his weapon.

They flashed outward at different angles, each arcing unerringly toward Mary. She closed her eyes.

The arrows paused mid-flight, beginning to turn.

“No.” Tetsurin swung a hand upward. A tremendous wave of ice manifested as he moved, freezing the arrows in place.

Mary pulled back her bow and fired straight through the ice. Tetsurin blocked the arrow contemptuously, his sword absorbing the arrow as before.

His expression changed subtly as the ice began to crack. Mary strode forward, then raised her hand.

“Boo.” Mary flicked the ice. It exploded outward, chunks flying in Tetsurin’s direction. He deflected several pieces, symbols like shards of ice appearing on his sword’s surface, and side-stepped others.

In that short time, however, the nine formerly frozen arrows flowed toward Mary, lining up in a row.

“It doesn’t matter how many of those you fire,” Tetsurin said. “They aren’t strong enough to matter.”

“Not on their own,” Mary admitted, “but like friends, they’re stronger together.”

Tetsurin frowned. “How does that—”

A tiny gesture from Mary. The arrows floated together, merging into a single giant glowing arrow, which gleamed against the spectral string of Mary’s bow.

“Oh.” A pause from Tetsurin. “Oh no.”

The arrow began to spin in place, gleaming with more and more power.

Tetsurin took a step back, bracing himself— The entire room went white.

I heard something crack.

Then the brightness moved, the entire colossal arrow shoved off to the side, flying to crash into one of the tower walls, digging deep into the stone. My eyes widened as I considered the amount of sheer power it would take to make an attack that could break through those defensive enchantments—And more so the amount of power necessary to turn it aside. Tetsurin stood near the center of the arena. The mist was gone. His grey-bladed sword was sheathed at his side—And a new blade was glittering in his hands, the edges shining with sun- bright radiance.

The style of the sword was all wrong. The blade was curved and single- edged, the hilt too small, the runes in the wrong order. But the sword’s form was, nevertheless, instantly familiar.

Tetsurin was wielding a copy of Dawnbringer, the Sacred Sword of Light. And, if the sword’s glow was any indication, his copy was stronger than Bright Reflection.

Or, at least, it had been.

Cracks were spreading across the sword’s entire surface. Pale smoke was rising from those cracks as mana vented into the air.

Tetsurin’s sword hand was blistered and blackened from blocking the strike.

And now, at least, his eyes were wide open, his expression pained and angry.

“You…you dare…” He drew the sword back.

“Yep.” Mary winked. “And you might want to look behind you.” Tetsurin blinked, spinning around, swinging at—Nothing.

Mary shot him in the back with a pitch-black arrow before he could turn back around.

He fell to a knee with a hiss, the arrow lodged in his shoulder. He reached up to try to grab at it, but she’d hit him at an extremely awkward angle.

“You…” He winced.

“Never was a very good miko,” Mary said. “But I really do love the outfit.”

She walked over to the downed swordsman. He stumbled to his feet, but he was moving slower now, the arrow doing its job.

When he swung at her, she simply stepped backward to avoid the swing, then closed in and smashed him in the face with her bow. Tetsurin went down face-first.

“Helps people think I fight fair.”

