CHAPTER IX – GREEN GEMS

After carrying Mara to the medic area, I ran back to pick up Bright Reflection — which she’d dropped while she collapsed. When I returned, I found a medic going through her pouches.

“Um…”

“Looking for her thumb. Sometimes people — ah, here.”

I winced as the medic pulled Mara’s severed thumb out of her bag. It was a little gruesome, but I was relieved that she had it, at least.

“Can you reattach it?”

“We’ll find out soon. She with you?”

I nodded. “One of my team, and a friend.”

“Anything I should know about prior injuries before I treat her?”

I took a minute to explain what I knew about her lost hand and other previous wounds, then headed off to check in with Sera.

After a bit more rest, I tried to help with another cannon, but they wouldn’t let me do any enchanting after I’d burned through my mana so many times in one day already. I was relegated to just carving runes, which was fine at first, but my hand started trembling after another hour of work. At that point they simply sent me away.

Following that, Sera sent me to another tent to clean myself off — it had been set up at some point when I hadn’t been paying attention. I was still in my bloodstained pajamas from the morning, and I found several makeshift showers inside the tent. I used one to rinse off, then changed into a different outfit from my bag, moved my remaining shield sigil, and came back to find a large group gathering near the center of the pyramid. Elora was speaking.

“The train arrived at the station to find it garrisoned by an enemy force. Fortunately, the majority of our Emeralds were on the front of the train, and the enemy force was quickly overwhelmed. We’ve retaken the station.”

A ragged group of cheers went up from the assembled survivors, but Elora raised a hand.

“It was easy — possibly too easy. We’re concerned about traps or more assassins. So, they’re sweeping the station before we start transporting—”

Another explosion rocked the walls, this one sending chunks of black stone raining from the ceiling of the pyramid. Several attuned sprang into action immediately, moving the chunks in mid-air to prevent them from hitting anyone, but the atmosphere had shifted.

“Never mind,” Elora said. “I’ll inform them the situation has changed.

Pack your things. We’re getting out of here.”

***I didn’t like the idea of being teleported by someone unfamiliar, but I didn’t have a lot of other options. I would have preferred for Elora to handle it, even if I didn’t trust her fully. She clearly had her own schemes, not the least of which was connected with Tristan in ways I didn’t fully understand. Nevertheless, she was one of the most effective combatants present, as well as largely handling strategic operations for the defense of the pyramid.

Instead, we were directed to a Wayfarer. I insisted — with what little authority I had — that Patrick, Mara, Sera, and myself be transported as one group. Fortunately, when I revealed that Patrick was my retainer and held an Emerald vote, that was more than enough to get us transported together.

To avoid extra teleportation cost, Sera briefly dismissed Vanniv. We physically carried Patrick, who remained unconscious. It wasn’t necessary for long — we gathered in the chalk-etched circle to designate people being teleported with several others, then the Wayfarer cast his spell, and we moved.

I felt the familiar and abrupt lurch as we moved. Fortunately, there was no obvious betrayal at that stage. We found ourselves surrounded by a group of heavily armed people, but I recognized a few of them immediately. While Mara shifted instantly into a defensive posture, the sight of the stopped train nearby told me we’d arrived in the right place.

“We’re safe and stable here for the moment,” an unfamiliar woman in a Valian military uniform instructed us. “Please step to the side to make room for the next teleportation group. If you’re capable, please see Darren Cade— he’s the one with the eyepatch — and have your name checked against our list so we can get a proper head count for survivors.”

Sera and I carried Patrick’s limp form out of the circle, then Sera hastily resummoned Vanniv to help carry Patrick. No one seemed startled by the summoning — these were virtually all experienced attuned, and Patrick wasn’t the only wounded. There was another medical area set up at the train station. We had our names added to the survivors list with Darren, then moved Patrick to the next medical station.

Mara stayed with Patrick, while Sera quickly integrated herself with the people running operations. At one point she winced, then reported that her summoned copy of the transcendence crystal had been destroyed. With Patrick resting, she sent her recently summoned Vanniv out to scout, then conveyed information to the leadership.

I…had less to do. My mana had been drained too recently, and while I desperately wished to contribute, I knew that I was already risking causing myself damage by pushing myself too many times in one day.

I wish I knew how to use Thorn’s spirit art properly. I hate being this useless.

I wasn’t the only one who was drained beyond usefulness, of course. That was both normal and expected in this sort of scenario — but that didn’t mean I’d settle for having this sort of problem indefinitely.

I’ll have to see if someone at the council can teach me more about spirit arts. Just…have to get there.

After that, it was painful waiting.

My heart still hammered from the excitement of the battle, but no further conflict came immediately — not on our end, at least. As more groups of survivors teleported through, I saw growing numbers of wounded. The last group, which included Elora herself, looked positively ragged. Elora’s hair was uncharacteristically askew, with a bloody gouge trailing down the right side of her face. She stumbled as she arrived, then limped toward the command center.

Proper healers rushed to her and the other wounded immediately, so I didn’t have anything to do there, either. Instead, I found Sera in the position she’d taken atop one of the hastily conjured walls around the train station, then let her know Elora was back and injured.

“Good,” Sera said. “Not that she’s wounded, of course, but that she made it. She’s one of the highest-value targets here. Truthfully, I’m surprised she stayed at the shrine as long as she did.” She frowned. “Shehas something to prove, likely to herself. That’s dangerous, given the circumstances. I’ll need to talk to her privately.”

“Guilt over leaving so quickly during the fight with Mizuchi?” I remembered how she’d coordinated a powerful strike with Meltlake, then fled. I didn’t exactly blame her for that, but it was self-preservation in a time when she could have potentially contributed more than anyone aside from Meltlake herself.

“No, she’d probably think that was the right move. That’s what makes this concerning. It’s because of what Derek did. He gave himself up to save me, and now she has to do more.”

“You think she’s being selfless — or trying to look selfless — as a form of competitiveness?”

“Essentially. She wouldn’t phrase it that way, but…” Sera shook her head. “I’ll talk to her at some point. But for now, she’s going to be handling more important matters. I expect that the people in charge here are going to try to get us marching north soon, and that’s going to be a mess. We can’t stay here, but it’s going to be difficult to establish a safe route, especially with wounded. You should rest while you can. We’re not going to get much sleep until we find another defensible location…and that might be a while.”

***I did not, in fact, sleep. Maybe there was a skill for being able to fall asleep while one of your closest friends is in dire medical condition and you’re waiting to be ambushed by enemies at any time, but it was not one that I possessed.

I tried to sit and just rest, but that didn’t work, either. After a few minutes, I checked on Patrick. He was still in a magically induced sleep to recover, but he was looking physically better.

After that, I wandered around the train station to find a quiet spot to sit and panic quietly. I found a nice little nook hidden under one of the pedestrian bridges designed to go over the tracks. Ordinarily, the idea of sitting anywhere near train tracks would have felt overly dangerous — I didn’t relish the idea of being hit by an unexpected train — but given that there wouldn’t likely be any more of them departing Valia for weeks or months, I thought I was pretty safe.

I wasn’t expecting someone to find me as quickly as they did.

It wasn’t Sera’s odd ability to predict my personality quirks that led someone to me, nor was it the concern of one of my friends or allies. Itprobably wasn’t magical tracking.

Instead, when a familiar figure hopped down from the pedestrian bridge, landing from the thirty-foot drop without any sign of discomfort from the impact — and no clear impact sound, actually — she looked briefly startled when she scanned the area and found me.

I blinked at Mary Hawthorne. She blinked back on me. “…Sorry. Didn’t realize this hiding spot was taken.”

I was about to comment on how it wasn’t a hiding spot, when I realized that was exactly what it was. Rather than being ashamed, I just felt resigned. “Eh.” I patted a spot next to me. “Room for two, as long as you don’t talk too much.”

Her eyes narrowed, then she glanced from side-to-side. “Deal.”

***We were quiet for a while after that, backs against the stone support pillar for the bridge. I had the occasional intrusive vision of the bridge suddenly collapsing on top of us from some kind of magical artillery strike, but I managed to push that image aside by reminding myself that this spot wasn’t any less safe than any other part of our makeshift fortification.

I could be obliterated immediately no matter where I sat, so why bother worrying?Mary held up her side of the deal, but kept fidgeting, changing positions repeatedly. Neither of us had enough trust for the other to close our eyes, so the silence didn’t really help. Eventually, she pulled a tiny green gemstone out of her pouch and rolled it between her fingers, practicing some kind of mundane magic trick or dexterity exercise.

I pulled out a book for a little while, flipping to the middle. Which one didn’t matter. I must have tried to read the same page five or six times before turning to the next one to look like I was making progress.

Finally, I let it close, shoving it back in my dimensional bag and turning to Mary. I focused, seeing her — another student my age, one of the only others who was powerful, or perhaps foolish, enough to stand up to Mizuchi during the Winter Ball — looking just as helpless and lost as I was.

And, feeling a sense of absolute exhaustion settling in, I braced myself as I asked a question that had been playing in my mind. “So,” I gestured to the tiny stone she was playing with, “is that an emerald?”

“It isn’t,” she said, “but it’s meant to look like one. You see a green gemstone, naturally you think of an emerald, at least in our culture.” Seeingthe question in my expression, she continued. “I fiddle with things when I’m thinking. In this case, I picked something that felt…thematically appropriate.”

“You thinking about making yourself look like an Emerald for the council?”

She nodded. “More like I’m thinking about asking you to help me withit.”

“…What makes you think I can help with something like that?”

She chuckled. “No need for the deflection. I’m close with House Theas.

I’m aware of what you did to your father — and, for what it’s worth, I agree with it. But more relevant to this conversation, I’m aware of what that implies you can do with attunements in general.”

I felt a little annoyed that House Theas was apparently giving away details about my capabilities without my permission, but I supposed I’d have to get used to that sort of thing if I was going to continue associating with political powerhouses. Elora had always come across as more ambitious than Derek, and I’d chosen to work with her, at least for the moment.

Chosen might be a loose word for what happened, I considered, but it’s not like I have better options at this moment. As long as she appears to be genuinely looking after Valia’s best interest…which, for the moment, I think she probably is.

“I’d prefer you keep that information to yourself.”

“Of course. The more people who know, the less effective it will be if you do something like what I’m proposing. Even other Valians would be… displeased. Especially certain factions.”

“…And what faction would you be associated with?” I asked carefully. I hadn’t been paying enough attention to that sort of thing before — and it was clearly a major gap in my knowledge. I couldn’t continue to press forward in ignorance, especially given the high probability that what had started on the train had involved some degree of internal sabotage.

And, of course, the whole Sons of Valia incident was still fresh in my mind.

“House Theas, of course. If you’re asking about things beyond that, well…you’d have to pose that particular question to Elora. I think you already have some ideas as to who she’s worked with over the years, given your own family, but it isn’t my place to say.”

So, Mary seems to know about Tristan, too. Or my mother. Or she’s just cold reading and saying things that are general enough that anyone would read something into them.

I hated dealing with this kind of maneuvering, but it wasn’t unfamiliar. I’d grown up with it, after all. “Sure. I’ll ask Elora for details at some point, when she isn’t overwhelmingly busy. And as for your request, my answer will be contingent on what I get from her.”

“Of course.” She nodded. “Thanks for considering. And…sorry to disrupt your rest. I wasn’t sure if I should ask anything, and I was debating, but…”

“It’s fine. In fact…while I have you here, let me ask you a question of my own.”

“Oh?” Mary gave me a quizzical look. “What sort of question? I’m a good student, but I’m primarily a fighter, not a scholar. That was…”

She trailed off, not wanting to complete her thought.

I winced. I’d probably reminded her of her dead friend again. I really needed to stop that, but it was extremely difficult to discern when a random comment might set off a thought process for someone else that didn’t think the same way I did.

Still, I needed to be better. And the first part of that was getting her mind on something else, namely the subject I’d intended to ask about in the first place. “You’re a specialist in banishment magic, aren’t you? I was wondering if you might tell me a bit about it.”

“Oh.” She blinked. “Is that all? It’s pretty straightforward, really. You don’t already know?”

“Only at the most basic level. Most banishment magic is used to return people or other entities to where they came from. Elementals to their home plane, that sort of thing. I know it also can be used to return spire monsters to their spire of origin, in the rare case that they’re outside.”

“Ah. Is that what this is about?” She paused, leaning back a little. “Mizuchi, right? The Winter Ball?”

It wasn’t what I was thinking about, actually. I’d been hoping to subtly glean some information about Thorn without giving away exactly what had happened. I wasn’t sure how much she already knew. She was clearly close with Elora, but I didn’t know what level of trust that entailed, or how much information she’d been given. Truthfully, I wasn’t even sure how much Elora knew about the whole Thorn situation.

That said, I was genuinely curious about what had happened with Mizuchi, and I could inquire about that without raising suspicion. “That’s one example of what I’m interested in, yes. During the ball, you were firing those arrows of light at her, which she caught. Were those arrows intended to send her back home?”

“Nothing so grand as that.” Mary sighed. “I didn’t have any hope of having that kind of effect on someone as powerful as she was. Instead, those were using another function of banishment magic — mana banishment, rather than personal banishment.”

I blinked. “Mana banishment? Meaning…returning mana to its home plane of existence?”

“Yep. Arrows and other projectiles usually aren’t good at dealing with shrouds. Mana banishment arrows, however, are near-perfect counters for typical shroud-based defenses. As they hit any form of mana that’s still in an energy state, they send that energy back to the home plane. This isn’t foolproof, mind you. The mana they’re passing through still has a moment to affect the arrow before it’s banished, and the arrow still has a limited banishment mana supply to work with, both of which can mean that a powerful enough defense — or a defense of a specialized type, like an earth-type shroud that can’t be easily dispelled — will stop the arrow. It was, however, the best tool I had to work with to try to burn through Mizuchi’s defenses.”

“So…you weren’t trying to beat her, but…”

She nodded. “I was burning through some of the mana from her shrouds with each shot, even when she grabbed them. That made her more vulnerable to attacks from others.”

“How did you know she had multiple shrouds?” I asked.

“I didn’t until I saw the effects of my first arrow passing through the shrouds. I have a lot of experience with watching banishment mana interact with other mana types, and I could see what was happening as it passed through them. When I took the first shot, I just thought she’d have one big shroud. Really, it didn’t change my strategy. The best I could hope to do was wear her down for the Emeralds and Citrines to do something more significant.”

I nodded in understanding. “Fair. What would have happened if an arrow would have actually hit her?”

“Hm. Tough to say. My arrows are…special, but I still don’t know if they would have beaten any passive defenses on her body. Her shroud was just the start. Her durability is absurd. Hypothetically, if one had gotten through, it might have dispersed some of her internal mana supply, lowering her actual available mana to use. Of course, for someone like Mizuchi, it would have been like draining a single drop out of a bucket.”

“That makes sense.” I frowned. “Okay. And a more powerful effect, like the ritual used to banish Mizuchi…that would have both sent her home and drained her mana?”

“Yeah. Still…trying to wrap my head around how Professor Vellum did that.”

I raised an eyebrow. “I just assumed that was a high-level Abjurer thing?”

“No Abjurer I’m aware of can do anything like what she did. That ritual circle might have been some kind of Enchanter thing to help boost the effect, but…” Mary shook her head. “I don’t think it was just that. Did you catch her incantation? You were nearby, right?”

I couldn’t deny that. “Yeah. Something about the stars. I thought it was just flowery incantation stuff at the time, but do you think there was something to it?”

“Might be. Pre-Attunement Era sorcerers used to…never mind, I’m getting off topic. No, I’m not sure what she did.”

“But it was basically just a super powerful banishment spell, right?” “Sure, in the same way that melting a lake might be called a ‘superpowerful fire spell’. It’s reductive. There was more going on there.” “…Okay. I can look into that sometime, but…the effect. Someonementioned that a spell like that would make the banished target weaker?” “Who mentioned that?”

I thought back. “Elora, I think? Or Derek, maybe? Been a while.” “Ah, sure. They’d obviously know.”

Once again, I felt like she was trying to…feel something out, maybe. I wasn’t sure what it was, though, and I wasn’t sure I was worried about it.

“How would that work, exactly? I’m guessing the spell both returns them to their home and drains their mana, but I don’t see how that would cause weakness for more than, you know, however long it takes to get mana back.”

“Ah. That gets into some trickier material. A couple factors.” She took a breath. “First is simple enough — when you’re as strong as Mizuchi, getting a large part of your mana back can take a long time, even inside a spire.”

“Oh. Right. She’s supposed to have hundreds of times an Emerald’s mana in her true form, so…yeah, that could take a while. Okay, I can see that part. But that wouldn’t actually make her weaker, aside from maybe… wait, does banishment cause strain, in the way that using mana deliberately does?”

Mary laughed. “You didn’t really need to ask me anything, did you?You got it on your own.”

“Well, I couldn’t know if I was right without asking. But is that really all there is to it?”

“Strain might be underselling it a little, but the core concept is right. A banishment spell that drains someone’s mana down to the minimum safe values isn’t just like exercising to that point…it’s like pulling the mana out of them forcefully. You remember what they said in class about star veins and Dianis Points, right? It takes a lot of power, but powerful banishment spells are one of the only ways to hurt those. You can even temporarily damage the connections between layers of self.”

That made a lot of things click together. “And Mizuchi is a serpent. Her true strength is in her full-sized serpent form, which is a separate body she keeps on the spirit plane, like dragons do. It’s another layer of self, and the banishment spell might have interfered with her connection with it…yeah, that’d be a significant hit to her power.”

“…Okay, I have to know why you’re mentioning dragons.”

I coughed. “Sorry. First heard about the spirit body thing from…a friend, I guess. You’ve heard of Keras Selyrian?”

Her lips twitched upward in delight. “Oh, yes. I’ve heard of Keras Selyrian.”

“Well, uh, let’s just say he told me some stories about dragons.”

Mary laughed. “Of course he did. I’d love to hear those stories myself sometime, if you’re willing.”

It was a subtle thing, but I think she shifted a little closer to me when she said that. I didn’t mirror the gesture, but I didn’t pull away, either.

It was possible she was flirting with me, but at the moment, I simply didn’t have the energy to care one way or another. I was too tired. “I’ll haveto think about what he’d be okay with me sharing. Sorry. I’m…not great with dealing with secrets and politics and…”

“You’re going to get eaten alive by the Emerald Council if you think of yourself like that. Work on your confidence, Cadence.”

I sighed. “That’s…a work in progress.”

She nodded. “That’s all any of us can do, really. Just…keep working on getting better. One day at a time.”

“One day at a time.” We were silent for a bit.

“Should, I go?” Mary asked. “You look like you might need some space.”

I pondered, then shook my head. “You can stay. But…let’s just sit for a bit, if you don’t mind. The council…it’s going to be a lot of talking. Too much talking. I think I need a break.”

“Understood. And…thank you.”

I opened a book. She went back to playing with her little rock for a bit, then eventually withdrew a book from some kind of extra dimensional space. And finally, after an hour or two, we heard the announcement —It was time to go. Teleportation jumps were being arranged…and the Emerald Council awaited us.

