CHAPTER XII – WHISPERS

Elora took a moment to pause dramatically after the statement.

That was good, because I had questions, and I needed to figure out which one to prioritize. Not that I could trust her answers, but if she was being direct about this part, then maybe…“Valia’s Godslayers? You have different regional branches?” I asked.

“Yes. We have different groups in each nation. By necessity, we compartmentalize information to ensure that even if one group falls, the others are able to continue their activities. I have contacts everywhere, but most people below my level have no knowledge of the events or plans happening elsewhere.” She frowned. “That was your first question? I was expecting a bit more…”

“Shock? Skepticism?” I shrugged. “I already know you were a part of the team that attacked Tenjin, and that there was a Whisper faction that intended to kill him. Tristan told me that he switched perspectives. I assumed that had happened beforehand, but you being affiliated with the Godslayers isn’t really a surprise. Honestly, I’m more surprised you weren’t…”

“Killed by someone who figured out my involvement? Captured and interrogated like Vera?” She shrugged. “I’m a major figure in Valia’s government, it isn’t quite that simple.”

“Surely, Katashi could have figured it out.”

“Oh, yes. I’m sure he knew exactly who was involved within minutes of the attack. He very likely showed up in the room where it happened, captured Vera and Echion, and threw a memory spell to reconstruct the event, just like you suggested a Diviner might do here. After that, he had time to figure out how to use the event to his advantage. I left the spire immediately after Tristan took Tenjin away, but Katashi found me within an hour, in spite of extreme measures to cover my tracks. We had a talk. And Imay have suggested that my place in Valia’s government would be advantageous to him in the event that he chose to acquire another spire.”

“You…offered to sell out our entire nation to him?” I felt myself subconsciously making a fist at the idea.

She gave me a dubious look. “Of course I did. What else would I do? I made some moves to assist him with covering his own tracks, too. To do anything else would have been insane. If he’d wanted to kill me then and there — or in the months that followed — there was little I could have done to stop him.”

“What about going off-continent?”

“He branded me, much like he did to you. If I decided to take a boat to lovely Artinia…boom.”

I frowned. “Can I see it?”

She chuckled. “It’s on my chest, darling. You sure you’re ready for that kind of commitment to our cause?”

I sighed. “I’m asking so I can confirm your story and figure out if I could remove it for you. If you want to be playful about being shirtless, fine, but to me, the whole ‘possible torso explosion’ thing is a little more important than ‘oh no, the guy known for having zero sexual interest in people saw me shirtless’.”

Elora gave me what looked like the most genuine smile I’d seen on her face. “I like you, Cadence. That confidence will serve you well with us. Out of respect for your honesty, I’ll share the same, rather than more teasing. I’m not showing you because I’ve already had it modified and I don’t want you to see how. I don’t know if you can see sub-glyphs at a glance yet and I wouldn’t trust your answer if you said you couldn’t.”

“That’s perfectly understandable, thank you.” I nodded.

“You’re taking this whole thing well,” Elora mused. “You’d be surprised how many people just panic when I mention a word like ‘Godslayers’.”

I offered her a shrug. “My life has been pretty much non-stop twists since I took my Judgment. A swordsman strong enough to fight a visage. Caelford making artificial god beast attunements. Tenjin’s disappearance. Confirming Tristan is alive. My mother knowing he was alive, and having contact with a visage about it. Vae’kes manipulating our government. Honestly, as far as twists go, this conversation barely rates an eyebrow raise.”

Elora chuckled. “I suppose when you put it in those terms, one more bit of information is less significant. But I hope you understand the degree of trust I’m putting in you by identifying myself.”

“Sure, and I don’t intend to tell anyone without a good reason. You have to expect that I’ll discuss it with Sera at some point, though, just to be realistic.”

“Of course. I would expect no less. Discuss, debate. I’m not the type to restrict information like some, nor are my fellows. The offer I intend to extend to you is for you only, however. Sera may get her own offer, but it would be separately, and for different reasons.”

“No objections there.” I nodded. “I take it you’re intending to offer me to join your faction?”

“Not at this stage, but obviously things will be going in that direction. Instead, I’d like to offer you a private meeting with someone who can tell you more.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Who would that be?”

“My backer. And your brother’s former backer, before he turned away from our faction.” There wasn’t even a hint of bitterness in her tone. If anything, she sounded…respectful? Fond? Like…changing sides was something she approved of?Odd. I’ll have to look into it— No.

Not this time. Too important.

“You sound almost like you approve of his decision. Am I wrong?’She wrinkled her nose. “With the information available to him, it was an understandable move, and he executed it spectacularly. Even my patron agrees. I should make it clear that there is no ill will against Tristan, on my part or his. If anything, we’d love to bring him back into the fold.”

“And I assume attempting to recruit me for a part of that?”

She waved a hand in a “sort-of” gesture. “We want your help for other reasons, but my patron has a way of making use of whatever tools are available. He’d certainly ask for your help with Tristan at some point if it’s a possibility, but I’m sure he has other ways of reaching out to Tristan, too.”

“And this patron of yours? Who is he?”

“I’m afraid that’s one thing I do have to be vague about, as even saying his name here would set off alarms. I believe you’d find that the novel series about him is rather inaccurate, however.”

I took a breath. “The one that train robbers have been copying?” “That’s the one, yes.” She nodded.

“Oh.” I took a breath. “Oh no.”

“Yes, most people react like that at first. Let me assure you that if you agree to the meeting, you will be given safe passage to and from the meeting, and we will ensure your safety during the meeting to the best of our ability as well. This is no trick or trap. You are free to refuse. In fact, my patron expects you to refuse to join us, but believes the meeting will still be productive and instructive.”

“In what way?”

“He’s willing to share certain intelligence with you even if you do not work for us, since he believes that we are working toward common goals.”

“…Meaning the downfall of the visages? That’s not…”

“Not all the visages. Katashi specifically. You are uniquely equipped to be involved in that particular affair — and assisting is in both your best interests and Valia’s best interests. Katashi is moving to conquer us. Countless lives will be lost if he’s allowed to continue this war. And, perhaps more importantly to you, Katashi will kill Tristan when he’s completed his conquest.”

“How can you be certain of that last part?”

“Oh, well, while Katashi and I were talking, he made it clear that he was planning to clean up any loose ends after Valia was in his hands, including me, if I wasn’t perfectly loyal. I have, of course, been trying to make certain I give the appearance of that to him, but I’ve been making my own plans to stop him since the start.”

“What reason do I have to trust you, if I know you’re playing both sides?”

“Oh, Corin. You absolutely shouldn’t trust me. You know that. Take what you know and extrapolate.”

I frowned. “You’re going to try to make sure you’re in the best position possible regardless of if Katashi wins or not. But…all things considered; you probably don’t trust him to keep you alive if he does succeed. And even if he doesn’t kill you, you’ll likely lose power and influence in the event of his victory. So, your best-case scenario is for Katashi to fail in a way that he is unable to extract revenge against you.”

“Perfectly done. You know, many people underestimate you, but I’m not one of them. I know what you did to your father, after all. And if you can dothat to him…who’s to say you can’t do the same to a visage?” “You can’t literally mean using the same strategy.”

“No, of course not. His powers don’t work the same way, or it would have been done by now. Even taking down Tenjin was complicated — and the same plan won’t work twice.”

“How’d you pull it off?”

She took a moment, seeming to consider that. “I can’t tell you everything, but I’ll give you a critical component. Your brother was armed by my patron with The Ordinary Knife.”

I blinked. “I take it the is an important article in that name. What is The Ordinary Knife?“An innocuous name for a terrifying weapon. Under most circumstances it appears, even to Emerald-level detection magic, to be a perfectly mundane knife. However, it also treats everything around it as if it was…perfectly ordinary. It completely ignores all forms of magical defense, like shrouds and barriers, as if they were not there. Moreover, if it cuts someone or something, it renders whatever it cuts ordinary.”

“…You’re telling me it made a visage powerless?”

“No.” She shook her head. “Even the knife wasn’t capable of that. But it weakened him significantly and in ways that could not easily be countered. There were several other components to the plan, but that was a critical one.”

“What happened to this knife?”

She shook her head. “I took it after the fight and stored it in the Jaden Box. Afterward, well, someone opened the box completely, and…”

“Oh.” I remembered a dagger with a pitch-black aura, one that went missing after the box had been emptied out. “I, uh…oops? But wait. The dagger I saw in the box didn’t look like what you described.”

She shrugged. “I heard about that. I’m not sure what happened. My suspicion is that the Jaden Box’s storage functions interfered with it in a way that made it temporarily show something closer to a ‘true form’ when it was taken out after being stored for a long enough time. For all I know, the black dagger you saw might have been something different, and The Ordinary Knife might have escaped through some other means. Either way, it’s gone, and I don’t know where.”

“Could someone else make one?”

“Doubtful. It was, from what we were told, a worldmaker-class item — or at least a piece of one. Even then, Tenjin would have escaped from its influence if we hadn’t taken other measures, but…that’s for my patron to explain, if he chooses.”

I took a breath. “Should we try to find the knife? It seems like something that could be useful.”

“Oh, it would be. But I’ve put Emeralds on it without any success. Perhaps my patron has it back — he wouldn’t tell me one way or another. But either way, Katashi would be aware of that strategy, so it’s not useful for this specific endeavor. Perhaps for the rest of them, but one visage at a time is best.”

I shivered slightly in spite of myself. She was really talking about killing all of the visages, without the slightest hint of emotion about it. Just like…the weather or something. “…Why? I can see why your patron might want this, but…why help him? If he’s pulling the strings on this…wouldn’t getting rid of the visages just open the door for his people to take over here?”

“Please, Corin. If my patron wanted to take over Valia, or even Kaldwyn as a whole, he would have done so already. The visages couldn’t stop him.”

“Then why isn’t he handling this on his own?” “That would defeat the point, from his perspective.”

I frowned. “Is this some sort of…god thing? Like, he gets stronger if people are doing absurd things in his name?”

“You know, that’s probably true, but no, that’s not his central motivation. Well, assuming what he says can be believed, which is, you know, unlikely. But he has an explanation that sounds plausible. I’m not going to tell it to you. You’ll have to ask him yourself…if you accept the meeting.”

I sighed, considering the absolute insanity it sounded like to answer in the affirmative, and asked one last question. “When and where?”

***When we finished the discussion about her employer, I went to the door to leave, but Elora spoke up before I turned the handle. “I can see how that might have seemed like a final note for our conversation, but there’s a bit more before you leave.”

I turned toward her. “I’m not sure I’m in the mood for more dubious deals.”

“Well, then you should probably start the walk back to Valia, since such deals are all you’ll be dealing with over the next few days. Or weeks, depending on how long the council session is held.”

I groaned, but I conceded her point. “What else, then?”

“Some basics about your role in all this,” she gestured at the building around her, “at least to start with. As an Arbiter, you theoretically have the ability to negotiate directly with the visages. It’s a peculiar position to be in when the visage you’re connected to is invading your own nation. It would be unwise to assume Katashi hasn’t accounted for that. You should expect offers to switch sides, more assassination attempts, and other forms of leverage.”

“Wonderful. I’ll take that under advisement.”

“I’m certain you will. More than that, however, you should understand your position lends you a degree of ability to skew the narrative. When the Dalenos delegation arrives, they will no doubt insist that the invasion represents Katashi’s will. But you could, if you chose, potentially use your influence to cast that into doubt.”

“What, you mean just…contradict them? Who would possibly believe me?”

“That, my dear, depends on how good your argument is, as well as what evidence you’re capable of presenting.”

I frowned. “I don’t think I’m equipped to skew people’s perceptions on that. Obviously the people of Dalenos will know if Katashi is the one guiding their forces.”

“Of course. But the people of other nations may be less certain, especially our own. You should understand that these are strange and challenging times for some, Corin. Our visage is missing. There may be those that welcome the idea of another visage stepping in and taking us under his proverbial — or sometimes literal — wing. You can make the argument that you, as Katashi’s Arbiter, have heard no such plan from him. Put the burden on Dalenos’ representatives to present evidence of Katashi’s direct involvement.”

I took a breath. “Would that even accomplish anything?”

“Difficult to say. It’s possible they’ve prepared something, like a memory crystal from a meeting with Katashi, but that’s unlikely — ameeting with him would be considered to be too important to record in that fashion. It would be seen as sacrilegious. Which means, essentially, it’s their word against yours.”

I frowned. “And they’d be the ones telling the truth.”

“Well, in a matter of speaking. If all you say is that you haven’t heard anything or been given any orders to turn the nation over, that would be true, wouldn’t it?”

I sighed. “I suppose. But would Katashi have any obligation to tell me that?”

“Of course not. Visages have few or no obligations to mortals in general, depending on who you ask. But as an Arbiter, you do have the right to raise the question of whether or not this endeavor is truly authorized by Katashi.”

“What does that get us? Do I demand a meeting?”

She waved her hands in a fervent “no” gesture. “No, that would be overplaying your hand. Ultimately, the principal goal here is to buy time for other movements, as well as to cast doubt on the Dalenos’ military’s authority to invade. That doubt helps give us multiple potential measures of eventual resolution, depending on how the next several moves play out.”

I paused to consider that. “It opens a door for Katashi to disavow the invasion more easily if it goes badly.”

“Precisely. If I had to wager on why you have not been contacted, it would be that you exist as a contingency for exactly that purpose — to meet with him at a later time, for him to claim no involvement in the invasion, and to ‘negotiate’ a ceasefire on terms he no doubt already planned.”

“That’s…” I exhaled a breath. “How many contingencies do you think he has? Can we even get ahead of that sort of thing?”

“On our own? Likely not. But we’re not the only players here — and some have been in the game even longer than the visages.”

“…I’m not sure I’m thrilled at the idea that my movements might just be serving the purposes of your patron, either.”

She shrugged a shoulder. “They might not. As I said, there are other players plural. Some may play their hands quietly. I anticipate at least one or two others will make bold moves over the following days, showing their hands in a way that will be historically rare, if not unprecedented. These are exciting times. You’ll have a lot to reminisce about if you survive them.”

“Lovely.” I refocused. “Speaking of other players…what about the Peacemakers?”

Elora scoffed. “That’s just a fancy name for saying people who are aware of the situation, but comfortable with the status quo. I wouldn’t go so far as to call them a ‘faction’ in their own right. There might be a few noteworthy Whispers among them — people who might actively take steps to preserve the existing situation — but I have no evidence to believe that they’re organized enough to warrant being considered a single group.”

I nodded in understanding. “Any specific people among them I should watch for?”

“Not that I can think of at this moment. Most of these ‘Peacemakers’ aren’t going to be at a place like this council. This is a bastion of human power; it runs counter to everything they stand for.”

“And they wouldn’t want to infiltrate or sabotage that? Seems like an obvious target for that sort of thing.”

“Oh, there will be people doing that, absolutely. Just not on behalf of any sort of organization. I suppose I could point people out to you that might be worth worrying about later, but of the guests that have arrived, I have not noticed anyone who I would strongly associate with these ‘Peacemakers’.”

“Noted, thank you.” I took a breath. That was some useful information, at least, even if I thought she sounded a little overly dismissive. “What about my brother’s faction? What can you tell me about them?”

“I believe that would be better answered by Tristan.” “And if I’m not in a position to get answers from him?”

“I would be willing to trade information for a direct guarantee of support on certain issues. Is that something you’d like?”

I hesitated. “Not until I’ve had a chance to talk to Sera, at least.”

“Wise. This is not a time for incautious moves and alliances. That said, ultimately, you will need to make certain choices on where you align yourself.”

“I understand.” I went quiet. “What are these moves you’d want backing on?”

“The first two are simple. Discredit the invasion to the best of your ability. This is, I would suggest, wise even if you do not lend your hand to our cause. Similarly, you should register for the Emerald Trials. Succeed inthem, make yourself known as an Emerald. This will lend your voice more weight in discussions, as well as a physical vote.”

“Is a single vote likely to be meaningful?”

She shook her head. “In terms of absolute value, no, it’s rare for something to come down to a single vote. Your single vote, if it exists, may inspire others to follow your lead. By occupying a position of religious significance, you are a means by which religious Valians can take the stance that the visages have not chosen this invasion, and that has great significance in certain voting blocs.”

I groaned. I did not want to be the spokesperson for a religious voting bloc, nor did I want to be guiding their voting patterns, but…“Could I give my vote to someone with more…political abilities, if I had one?”

Elora chuckled. “You could, but it would potentially devalue the vote, especially if you didn’t have a good reason for it. If you were to, say, give the vote to Sera because you were going to meet with Katashi personally, that would hold great significance and likely retain the vote’s value. Unfortunately, pursuing that avenue has a problem.”

“That if I meet with Katashi, he might just decide to kill me?”

“Oh, that’s one of them. More likely, he just keeps you in a box until he needs you to say something. Or brands you, with the threat to make you explode, unless you behave in a certain way.”

“…If he wants to do that, why hasn’t he done it already?”

“Showing himself in Valia is not something Katashi does lightly, and up until comparatively recently, you had Selyrian to protect you. It’s possible that Katashi simply hasn’t had the time to act since Keras left — or, perhaps, that Katashi still believes that you are more useful moving of your own accord. I can’t claim to know everything that goes through his mind. But you should not underestimate your own importance, and you also should not underestimate Katashi’s knowledge of it. He will have made plans for you. The only question is if those plans are accurate and up-to- date, and that is why we must take steps he cannot easily anticipate.”

I exhaled another deep breath. “Okay. I won’t make any promises in terms of allegiance, but…I’ll think about it. And I can see the advantages of the Emerald Trials and getting a vote. But I imagine those aren’t easy to handle, if they’re designed for full Emeralds to prove their abilities.”

“Oh, they won’t be. Especially if you don’t complete them before the Dalenos delegation gets here, and they’re able to influence the tests.”

“What are they?”

“A preliminary check to see if you have an Emerald aura, just to avoid wasting time. They could technically check if you can use Emerald-level aura manipulation functions, but it’s unlikely. After that, three actual tests. The first will be monsters, similar to a Survival Match, but by yourself.”

“That might be…doable. Unless there are Emerald-level monsters?” “Oh, there will be. Probably just one at the end.”

I groaned. “You know I’m not supposed to be using my one of my attunements or my transcendence mark?”

“I’m sure you’ll think of something, dear. At least for that round. That’s the easy part.”

“And the others?”

“Oh.” She smiled. “We’ll burn those bridges when we get to them.”

***I took a few minutes to just decompress after leaving the room, standing in a hallway and breathing heavily after Elora headed back to the Valian meeting room.

After I managed to steady myself, I considered the conversation, then went to find Len. She was, in my understanding, the one responsible for the preliminary tests before the Emerald Trials.

“Master Cadence, how may I be of assistance to you?” Len reached up and adjusted her glasses. I briefly wondered if she was activating some sort of spell while doing so, but it didn’t really matter one way or another.

“I’m looking to participate in the Emerald Trials. Is there somewhere I need to sign up?”

“Nothing so formal as that. Your declaration of intent is sufficient. Are you familiar with the trial procedures?”

I shook my head. “Not in any degree of detail.”

“Very well, I can provide you with a brief overview, in that case. First, you’ll need to provide an outward demonstration of Emerald-level, observed by representatives of at least three of the four powers. Fortunately, although the majority of the representatives of each nation have not yet arrived, we have enough people here to serve that function at this time.”

“…Wait, right now? Literally now, I, uh…” I glanced from side-to-side, finding Sera amidst a crowd that I didn’t recognize. Patrick and Mara hadvanished.

“Calm, Master Cadence. There is no need for expediency in this matter. It can wait until later this evening, tomorrow, or even beyond if needed. An early demonstration has advantages, in that you would likely start earlier in the trials proper, and potentially dodge the participation of stronger competition.”

“Competition?” I asked.

“Ah. I appear to be getting ahead of myself.” Len folded her hands in front of her. “Beyond the demonstration, the trials will have three phases. The preliminary phase is simple — you’ll step into an arena and fight a series of progressively stronger monsters.”

I nodded. That sounded like what Elora had already explained. “And the later phases?”

“The second stage requires you to defeat an applicant from another nation. This is largely where you’ll see more investment in both physical and political capital from the nations, since the winner moves forward, and the loser cannot take the trials again until the next meeting of the council.”

“That sounds like the type of thing where sabotage could come into play.”

“It’s undoubtedly been attempted, but our security measures can be… extreme. Not infallible by any means, of course, but direct measures against someone here would likely be noticed and generate a powerful response. It’s more likely you’ll see interference in subtler ways. Strategic manipulation of the matchups, the timing in which matches occur, that sort of thing. Also, there’s nothing to stop any nation from loading their candidates up with magical items.”

She didn’t have to say it, but that would potentially negate one of my principal advantages — equipment. If everyone was coming in loaded with powerful items, that would make it harder to fight opponents above my level through that advantage alone. Which meant I needed to get even stronger equipment or find other advantages.

That was going to be extremely challenging, given that I still couldn’t use my transcendence crystal mark, and I probably shouldn’t use my Enchanter attunement either.

I took a breath. That’s a problem for future Corin. One stage at a time.

“Okay. What about the third phase?”

“Simple. You have to defeat an established Emerald.”

I groaned. Some of the other applicants might have been people like myself that were faking their Emerald status for the test — obviously, Mary was planning to do that if I helped her. Others would be brand-new Emeralds. For people who were established members of the council…well, some of them still could be people faking their level, but they’d have been doing it for a while if that was the case. They were much more likely to have actual Emerald-level combat ability.

I genuinely didn’t think I had a chance against one of them in a fair fight.

Obviously, I considered the approach of interfering with my opponent’s attunement, much like I had with my father. Doing that to someone from another nation, though…that was a very different statement. And I had no guarantee that I’d be matched against one of our enemies. There was every possibility I’d be fighting one of our allies, and potentially alienating an allied nation if I broke the attunement of one of their Emeralds.

Something like a smaller form of interference would be possible — maybe designing some kind of new attunement feature that would disable the attunement for a set period of time, then delete itself when that time period expired — but displaying the capability to alter attunements on that scale was another type of risk. I doubted most people at the gathering would have any idea what I was doing, but it was practically guaranteed that Farren Labs would have representatives present, and Warren Constantine himself owned the tower we stood in. They’d know, and given that Warren had destroyed his own attunements to prevent that sort of potential manipulation happening to him, I couldn’t imagine he'd be happy to see me doing it to others in his tower.

Deep breaths, Corin. You have time to figure this out.

“Okay.” I nodded to Len. “Let me talk to Sera, get her thoughts on this.” “Very well, Master Cadence. Let me know when you are ready for yourassessment.”

***I met up with Sera after that, dragging her to a dueling chamber to talk privately. I filled her in on my talks with Elora and Len. Her response was simple.

“You can’t beat most Emeralds without preparation. You probably can’t even handle the preliminaries in your condition, depending on the monsters they throw at you.”

“So, you think I should skip this?” I asked.

“I didn’t say that.” She looked around, clearly uncertain about the observation-blocking runes on the walls, then glanced back to me. “But we need to wait.”

“Why?”

“There are pros and cons to waiting purely in terms of the mana measurements. That said, Len said that it would be weeks before the physical trials are ready, correct?”

I nodded. “Yeah. At least a few. And they want more observers, too.”

“If that’s the case, then any demonstration of your abilities right now gives people the time necessary to analyze what you’re doing and figure out what sorts of tricks you’re using to look like an Emerald. Beyond that, they can prepare for countering your skillset.”

“What sort of preparations, exactly?”

“Any monsters you’re fighting in the preliminary stage will have a source. Given Warren and Len’s philosophy, it won’t be the free summoned monsters that live here. Thus far, those monsters seem to largely be hiding from the crowd. I don’t think he plans to show them unless he needs them to enforce the peace.”

I nodded. “Meaning that any monsters I’m fighting are going to be coming from a Summoner. And if I say I’m going to take the trials now, it gives our theoretical opponents time to study my abilities and figure out which summons to use against me. Okay.”

“This gives me some time to check in on the Summoners here, too. Figure out who might be used, which summons they have, and how… malleable they are.”

“You want to see if we can make a deal?”

Sera nodded. “Potentially. That said, it’s actually more likely it won’t be a Summoner supplying the monsters you fight. They’ll probably have someone from another nation be responsible for the monsters to avoid any accusations of Valia going light on you. While there are foreign Summoners, it’s less likely for a Valian attunement to appear in other spires. Granted, this gathering is much more likely to have multi-attuned than anywhere else we’ve ever been, but I think we’re more likely to run into another similar attunement, like a Conjurer.”

I frowned. “That means they’ll have a lot more flexibility, but lower power, right? Since they can conjure basically anything they can think of,but it’s less efficient?”

“A bit of an over simplification. Conjurers can still make contracts, but they’re optional. With a contract, conjured monsters are almost as effective as summons, but they have different strengths and weaknesses. Notably, in the latter case, light magic.”

“…Which I can use.”

Sera nodded. “With some minimal ability, yes. More likely? If I can confirm what you’re up against, you should borrow Bright Reflection.”

I nodded immediately. I remembered hearing Keras talking about how easily the original Dawnbringer tore through shades like paper. Bright Reflection was far from that level of power, but it was unlikely that these conjured monsters would be anything comparable to the Sun Eater’s shades. Having a strong elemental counter would be immensely useful.

“And if it’s not a Conjurer?” I asked.

“Then I get you a monster list. And…making a deal to go easy on you isn’t off the table.”

I shook my head. “I don’t want to start the competition that way.” “Don’t be Keras. This is more important than your pride. And it’s apolitical event — making ties is expected. You have your strengths here. Let me use mine.”

I stared at her for a moment, flexing my hands unconsciously at the moment of anger that came hearing Keras’ name used derisively like that, but…She wasn’t wrong.

This was too important for my pride. And Keras could ignore politics and deals because he was strong. Overwhelmingly strong. Even when he first showed up at the Sacred Sword tournament, he was already at a point where he could match most Emeralds in a fair fight.

I wasn’t there. Not yet.

I needed all the leverage I could get.

I didn’t like it, but Sera was right about her own strengths, too. And, if I was being honest…I wasn’t going to make it through this council without making a few bargains of my own. I’d already made one with Elora, and I suspected that was just the beginning.

“Okay. We’ve got a few weeks. Show me your own fighting style.”

Sera gave me the best smile I’d seen on her face in weeks. “That’s the beauty of my style, Corin. If I’m doing it right, no one else will ever see my moves.”

