CHAPTER XXIV – A DARKER GEMSTONE

Mara and I were absolutely exhausted as we stumbled out of the shrine, leaning against each other for fear that we might collapse without the support. It was…unusual, being able to be in contact with her like that without feeling as much of my typical panic. Part of the difference was probably that I was getting more used to her as a person, learning to trust that she wouldn’t hurt me, but I didn’t think that was the main factor. It was largely for the same reason that I didn’t panic when being touched by an ally who needed to cast a spell on me for a fight, or to heal me in the aftermath. My mind just didn’t process that contact in the same way. The fight might have been over, but my body was still primed for threats.

Len was waiting for us, just as I’d hoped. I felt a sense of relief when I saw her, but that relief shifted into confusion when I realized that Elora was with her.

“You’re both out,” Elora noted immediately. “Wonderful. I timed this perfectly. Callahan, you’re with Len. Corin, you’re with me.”

Mara folded her arms. “Not without an explanation. What’s goin’ on?Len?”

“Miss Theas has informed me that Corin has agreed to a meeting with one of her…contacts. That meeting has been arranged, and she hopes to bring him there.”

Mara turned to me. “This true?”

I nodded grudgingly. “I did agree to a meeting. You’ll get me back to the council in a timely fashion?”

“Of course. We’re both needed. This will be only a minor delay. And, since you seem needlessly suspicious, please rest assured that no harm will come to you. It would make no sense for me to simply vanish with you and murder you in a dark alley. People would notice, and you’re not that valuable.”

“…Thanks for the reassurance.” I sighed. “Does this need to be right now? I’m drained.”

“As you might expect, arranging meetings with certain individuals can be difficult, and we happen to be in closer proximity to an appropriate meeting place now. I sent messages while you were gone, got approval and arranged timing.”

“I’ll come along,” Mara said, seeming to notice my concern, “and you can take me back later.”

“You won’t, dear. The idea of a private meeting is that it’s private. I won’t be in attendance, either. I’ll be waiting nearby.”

I took a deep breath. “She can wait with you? Len can, too, if she’s willing to come along. We’re still at war, and splitting the party isn’t a great idea.”

“I wasn’t going to…” Elora frowned, then shook her head. “Fine. You’re right that we’re safer as a single group. And I could use something to eat.”

I blinked. “Eat?”

“What, were you expecting your meeting to happen in the middle of a mana-deprived void? A plane of nightmares, perhaps? No, Corin. It’ll be much worse. We’re going to a tavern.”

***I warily stepped through the doors of the Perfect Stranger tavern, glancing from side to side for threats.

It looked like an ordinary enough tavern, at least as far as I could see at a glance. Well, aside from being in the middle of nowhere in the Unclaimed Lands. I wasn’t sure how they managed to get any business. Not that I was particularly familiar with tavern business models, but it wasn’t my first time setting foot in one, either, and the majority of them had regulars — I couldn’t see that happening in a monster-filled wasteland. Really expensive drinks, maybe? Couldn’t imagine they would have a place with this without something really special on the menu. Like, I don’t know, liquid immortality or something.

I wasn’t big on drinking — I still didn’t like anything that felt like it changed the way my mind worked in a negative way — but I’d been dragged to a few taverns with my friends from time to time. Some of them had surprisingly decent food, too.

But I wasn’t there for a meal, and Elora aside, I didn’t think most of the scattered patrons of this place were, either. Most of them had the look I’d associated with climbers and delvers — visible weapons and signs of less- visible ones, accompanied by worn clothes and mismatched accessories. If I’m honest, that look didn’t actually feel threatening to me, even if it should have. It felt comfortable, like I was among my peers.

A waiter stepped over to the door a moment or two after I entered. “Your friend is waiting for you on the second floor. If you’ll follow me?”

I half-frowned, but knowing I was coming and giving the waiter a description wasn’t exactly a major act of prestidigitation. After seeing what Farren could do on a number of occasions, it didn’t really alarm me.

The sight of my “friend” did, though.

The waiter led me up a small stairway and to an isolated table near the back of the room, where a single man sat at a table with a Crowns board in the center of it. He was immediately familiar in a way that might have been joyous if I hadn’t noticed a few small details and a single greater one.

The man who was waiting for me wasn’t Derek Hartigan, but he could have been the man’s simulacrum. The differences were mostly subtle enough that they could have been my imagination, or perhaps the product of strange magic following his departure with Aayara. It had only been weeks since I’d seen Derek, but this man was notably older in some small ways — a little heavier of build, with deeper smile lines that were more prominent on the right side of his lips. His hair was a little longer, tied back in a ponytail that went just past his shoulders.

It was also stark white, which helped to draw attention to the excessive paleness of his skin. Either this man hadn’t seen the sun in far too long, or…I sat down across the table, internally grimacing. I’d seen this man before, at the Winter Ball. I’d heard of him on more occasions than I could count, mostly in childhood stories and myth, but on occasion, in the forms of more personal warnings.

I took a seat across from him, half-concerned that even the chair might be trapped, but resigned to the fact that if this man wanted me dead, I wasn’t going to be walking out of the building regardless of any precautions.

“Corin, it’s a pleasure to finally meet you. I’ve heard so much.” He reached  down  to  his  side,  briefly  presenting  a  window  of  apparentvulnerability, and lifted something off the floor.

I flinched as he reached back up and set an object on the table.

An hourglass. He flipped it over, and I watched the grains of sand begin to pour.

“Let’s begin, shall we?”

***Crowns was often mentioned in the same breath as Valor, but while the games were both popular and frequently played on similar boards, they had some clear differences.

Valor was a mirrored game, each side starting with identical pieces. There was a variant of the game where one side had the Tyrant in Gold instead of Selys, but it wasn’t as popular. My understanding was that there were variants on Valor in other nations that had different names for the pieces — a “soldier” might be called a “warrior” instead — but they were still functionally near-identical, with a simple board and identical gameplay. Crowns, however, was known for having numerous possible starting configurations. Each player built an “army” using a set number of points to purchase units, which each had a set point value. It was common for pre- built armies to be sold in sets — things like a “House Theas” set or a “House Hartigan” set, for example, built around having a famous hero like Edrick Theas or Blake Hartigan and generic support troops. There was an underlying formula used to calculate the point value of units, based on things like the unit’s Health, Attack, Movement, and Mana, but certain features were harder to quantify, and there were certain national and international organizations that approved and denied specific units fortournament play.

I’d played quite a bit of the game, largely because it was one of Sera’s favorite activities. Enough to know even at a glance that I wasn’t playing a balanced game.

And, more importantly, that some of the units on the board were not just non-standard — they’d most likely been carved for the purpose of this game alone.

The Blackstone Assassin lifted a single piece from the board — a beautifully carved stone piece representing Tenjin, the Visage of my homeland — and moved him forward, out of the protection of his army.

“Your move.”

I glanced at my own side of the board, inspecting my available pieces, and with growing trepidation, moved a Whisper piece from next to a Sovereign.

“I suppose Professor Orden would make the first move from this side? Unless,” I gestured toward a Summoner in House Theas colors, “you’d consider Elora to have made the first move?”

“Oh, no need to try to replay a past game. It’s more interesting to see if you could do better, after all.”

He moved Tenjin again, directly approaching my front line.

I lifted another piece, an unfamiliar one — a small boy. And, as I expected, I found numbers carved into the bottom representing statistical values. Absurdly high ones, in fact. “Echion?”

My mind went back to the strange child I’d found during my first visit to the Serpent Spire — one who had been marked with an experimental artificial attunement built to resemble the power of god beasts.

“An impressive experiment. Perhaps those numbers overstate his value at that age, but the game is more interesting when both sides have a chance, and certain abilities are harder to represent in game form. Particularly,” the Blackstone Assassin waved at the Sovereign, “the power to take abilities from others. Very few could claim to have such an ability, and fewer still have any understanding of the true potential of it. For that reason, it’s rarely represented in Crowns in general, and such pieces are usually disallowed in tournaments on your continent. After all, any true representation of their abilities would, by necessity, unbalance the game.”

I could see what he was hinting at, both in regards to Tristan himself and the similarity between Tristan’s abilities and those of the man I was playing against.

I moved Echion forward, preparing him to meet Tenjin’s advance. “And yet, you’ve allowed him to be in this game.”

“Of course. I’m the one who set the board. Shall we see the conclusion?”

Tenjin moved forward again without any accompaniment from his army— and I understood why. The assassin and I knew that we were both moving pieces for a game, but the piece he shifted wasn’t aware that the army he was walking into belonged to another player.

And with that knowledge, I gradually moved my pieces to surround Tenjin, then struck.

…Without the Sovereign this time. And, without difficulty, Tenjin wiped out the entire assault.

The Blackstone Assassin sighed, flipping the hourglass back over, then shifted the Crowns board out of the way. “You can see the difficulty. Even with strong pieces,” he gestured to Echion’s piece, now taken off the board, “some units are too strong for conventional assault. It is those unbalanced pieces, those that would be disallowed under ordinary circumstances, that are necessary countermeasures in a challenging game.”

“Unless you have an equally powerful piece of your own.”

“Ah.” The assassin’s lips twisted. “A wonderful suggestion. Perhaps we should try that in another game. Which piece, would you say, best cancels out this one?”

He lifted Tenjin.

“Conventionally, one would expect Wydd’s wide range of movement and stealth abilities would be the best counter to Tenjin. Aside from that…” I frowned. “Maybe the Emperor of Xixis?”

The Blackstone Assassin laughed. “An unconventional play, and one that perhaps strays a bit too far from the intended scenario. Accurate, though. And that sort of thinking is part of why I appreciate you, Cadence.”

“…Thank you?”

“Think nothing of it. Drink?” He waved down a waiter.

I hesitated, then brushed panic aside. He wasn’t going to bother poisoning me. “Do you have any juice?”

“Sure. Apple, orange, grape, lemonade?”

I ordered an apple juice. The Blackstone Assassin asked for a glass of some kind of fancy-sounding wine.

When I turned back away from the waiter, the Crowns board was gone, and the assassin was looking at me with a serious expression. “I think I’ve met the mandatory requirement for powerful beings playing with metaphors at this point, so I’ll be direct. I’d like you to work for me, Cadence.”

I can’t say I was entirely surprised, but it wasn’t the most likely option for how this scenario would play out. “Why?”

“Because, as you just demonstrated with your last suggestion, you’re capable of thinking about pieces so far off the board that most wouldn’t even conceive of using them. That has significant value. Moreover, you possess a rare skill set — one capable of upending the balance of things in a number of ways. As much or more than the piece you refused to play.”

I took a breath. “I don’t like being treated like a game piece.”

He relaxed back into his chair, shaking his head. “The metaphor is for simplicity, much like a military commander might represent troops with pieces before a battle. That does not negate your personhood or agency — in fact, I would be counting on those factors to make you useful. If it helps,” he flicked his wrist, making me tense, “I use the same imagery for myself.”

He placed a single piece on the table, one that looked very much like himself, but wearing a mask and a jaunty hat. “One of the mass-produced ones. The quality is a bit dubious, but you get the idea. The pieces exist to represent the presence or absence of someone in any given conflict, but I’m not the sort of person that actually thinks of living people as toys.”

“You’d be the first vae’kes I’ve spoken to that doesn’t,” I said before checking myself. It was a dangerous thing to say, perhaps, but he simply nodded.

“It’s very easy to see anyone who is different from yourself as lesser. This goes doubly so when you’re in a position of power, and of course, immortality doesn’t help much as far as perspective goes.” He accepted a glass from the returning waiter, and I did the same with my cup of juice. “I can’t say I’ve always proven to be an exception, but certain events have helped put things into perspective. And now, my intent is to work with others I can trust to have agency of their own. Not as equals, perhaps, but as…let’s call your role a ‘junior partner’.”

“Why?” My expression narrowed. I took a drink. “If you’re as powerful as the stories say, what purpose would you have for anyone like myself, aside from as a simple game piece?”

He seemed to consider that for a moment, lifting his glass and swirling it in the air. “You mentioned the Emperor of Xixis. That implies an awareness of powers outside of your home, which is a necessary insight. For too long, I was, like many of my peers, entirely too focused on events of an insular nature. Pieces that could be moved on a board in a simple, predictable fashion. This allowed for events to progress without my intervention for too long — to an extent that I would be foolish to attempt to handle them purely on my own.”

“The Sun Eater,” I said simply.

He smiled, lifting his glass in a mock toast. “I knew you’d understand.” He took a sip, and hastily, I raised my own juice to drink alongside him.

“The Sun Eater is an imminent threat, one that our entire planet is ill- prepared to handle. And while my peers would happily take this opportunity to use his impending incursion as a chance to find a better position for themselves, there is no point to being the top of the hierarchy of a dead world. Yes, I could survive and move to another world entirely, but I rather like it here. Don’t you?”

Presuming that wasn’t a rhetorical question, I answered simply, “Most of the time.”

“A fair response.” He nodded. “The Sun Eater is not the only problem, of course, simply the most imminent. There are others that could be similarly devastating. If the Sun Eater’s strike is even partially successful, for example, it could breach the seals that still hold the makers of this world. Releasing the Maker of Monsters would be a different sort of cataclysmic event, but one that I am equally eager to avoid.”

“So, your purpose for recruiting me would be to contribute toward stopping end-of-the-world scenarios?” I frowned. “I can see why I might have some utility in terms of Kaldwyn’s political scene, or even some longer-term influence if my magic grows, but…I’m a bit out of my depth with threats on that scale.”

“For now. And it’s not as if I expect you to be on the front line fighting the Sun Eater — rather, my hope is that your intervention could help to shift things so that there are more people of prominence in a position to do so. And, of course, you are hardly the only person I have reached out to, directly or indirectly. You’re right, however. Your political and magical power are useful, but replicable. What I require,” he gestured with a hand toward my head, “is this. I won’t claim that your manner of thinking is entirely unique, but the combination of your unusual mindset and your other abilities makes your perspective valuable. I want you to continue to think of inventions and strategies that others might ignore — and share those with me. Between us, and many others, I hope to avert the disasters to come.”

I paused, contemplating. Even if I’d predicted the possibility that he’d try to recruit me, this particular angle hadn’t been what I’d expected…nor was his attitude.

Jacinth didn’t come across like the other vae’kes had. He seemed… human. Normal. And close enough to Derek that it was hard not to takewhat he said at face value. He seemed almost mundane, normal. Charming, even.

Somehow, that made the entire setup more terrifying, rather than less.

I knew I was being played. I knew he was speaking to me on a level that indicated a high degree of preparation, like someone who had studied me closely. Not like most of the politicians I’d chatted with at the Emerald Council, who only had a cursory idea of my motives and capabilities.

…More like whoever had thrown in a summoned monster, rather than a conjured one, just to counter the fact that I had Bright Reflection.

That wasn’t to say that he was the person who had arranged that, of course. In fact, I found it hugely unlikely, and antithetical to his goals. It was more that I felt like I was talking to someone who had been paying attention, and who knew how to model my personality, rather than just coming into a chat with demands and expecting me to keep up.

He was making it too easy for me to say yes. I had to be wary of that. My childhood had been filled with stories of people who had made deals with the Blackstone Assassin, only to meet with a terrible fate.

He clearly had an angle here. “Even if I believe your word that your goal is to save the world, I have to assume you’re going to try to make sure that the state of the world in the aftermath is favorable to you…and any actions I took while working with you could contribute to that.”

“Naturally. And you might think that you’re better off trying to assist with these same events without associating with me — that’s perfectly reasonable. If you want to walk out the door without making any sort of deal, this meeting will still have been worthwhile for me, I won’t take any actions against you. That would be counter to my interests, since I think you have a role to play in the war against the Sun Eater, even if I think you’d be vastly more effective with my guidance. There is, of course, the question of whether or not you’d live long enough to help with the Sun Eater without my assistance. That’s not a threat, I’m not the one who would hurt you, nor is it likely that my agents would find any need. It is, however, an honest assessment that you may be in over your head.”

I took a breath. “Someone tried to have me killed on the train. Do you know who it was?”

“I do. A small consideration, ultimately, but that bit of information is one thing I’d be willing to offer in exchange for cooperation. I’d advise against it, however.”

I raised an eyebrow. “Why?”

“Because that’s a minor incident, in the grand scope of things, and one you’re capable of either figuring out yourself or ignoring. When you’re dealing with someone like me, your better bet is to trade for things you can’t find anywhere else.”

“Such as?”

I knew that allowing him to present his own answers was offering him more control over the conversation, but given who I was dealing with, I was more interested in seeing what he had to say than I was in retaining any fleeting or illusory bit of control.

“Information on ancient and obscure magic. Solutions to long-term problems you’ve been struggling to resolve on your own, although I will admit that you’re making some strides there even without my help. Powerful items, artifacts, resources. These are the types of things I could offer.”

“A means to permanently remove a visage’s brand without triggering its negative effects?”

“You’re playing your hand too much with that question, Cadence, and you can handle that issue on your own.”

I frowned. “Can I?”

“You can. It will take time and research, and involve risks, but you can. I offer you that information freely, by the way, because I want you to have it.”

“Why?”

“Your intent is obvious and I approve of it. In fact, I think you’d find that we align in many respects, and I can offer you a great deal. In your particular case, I’d suggest that the best options would be resources to help with your work. And, perhaps even more importantly, answers to questions you would not find elsewhere.”

“What sort of answers?” I had to ask.

“People around here are obsessed with hiding forbidden knowledge. I have no fear of Wydd’s machinations, nor am I afraid of what they would do to you if you learn too much. And, as I’m sure you expect, I know a great deal. I cannot say I’d share everything with you at once — and certainly not for free — but I could offer information that you would be hard pressed to find anywhere else on Kaldwyn, and perhaps beyond. Details on Tyrenian magic, Artinian, Danian. Things you won’t find inConstantine’s books. The spires, the visages, the world around you. Your family.”

My hand tightened around my cup. “Is this similar to the deal you offered Tristan?”

“Ah.” His smile faded a hint. “I did approach Tristan, yes, though indirectly. And I believed we had an excellent arrangement. But he chose a different path, and I regret that limits how much I could continue to help him.”

“…Are you the backer that was keeping him safe, then?”

He shook his head. “No. I provided information to Tristan through an intermediary, as well as a weapon to use, but his current backer is someone else, and not one of my peers.”

“Wydd?” I asked.

“I don’t normally answer things like this for free, but since it’s clearly weighing on you — no, not Wydd. Or, at least, Wydd is not Tristan’s most direct backer that I’m aware of. I can’t actually say I’m certain about Wydd’s stance in this. They’re complicated. But Tristan has help from someone else I’m certain of.”

I considered that, then nodded. “Thank you. That’s more than most people would tell me directly, at least. Do you know if Tristan is alive at this moment?”

“I suspect he is, although I can’t make promises in that regard. I haven’t personally been in the Serpent Spire recently and my agents have had limited access. I am very nearly as blind on events inside of the spire as you are.”

I was surprised to hear him admit any lack of information. “Could you save him, if he’s still alive?”

“As much as I’d love to entice you with such a promise, it wouldn’t be worth it for me to try. I could break my way into the spire, but it would spark a different sort of war. Even if I succeeded in dragging Tristan out of there…well, you’re valuable to me, but not valuable enough to risk a conflict on that scale. I hope you understand.”

I let out an exhausted sigh. I had known it wouldn’t be that easy, but I had to try. “If you can’t save him directly, what specifics are you offering? You’ve mentioned resources and information, but that’s all very vague.”

I was conscious of the fact that his manner of dialogue was lulling me into a negotiation, which worked to his advantage in terms of securing aneventual agreement of some kind…but this was the first time I’d sat down and talked to someone that could very likely offer me both the answers and the resources necessary to meet my long-term goals.

Keep your wits about you, Corin. You don’t want to end up with your soul in a rock.

I took a deep breath, half-conscious of my foot tapping underneath the table.

Breathe. Stop giving tells.

I stilled my motion briefly, but I knew I’d start doing it again later. It wasn’t a conscious thing, usually.

If the Blackstone Assassin noticed my struggle, he gave no sign. “I may not be willing to walk into the spire and steal your brother for you, but if that is your greatest concern, I might be able to offer you a way into the spire itself. It wouldn’t be easy, however, and you would be detected. I might be able to delay that, but ultimately, you’d be caught.”

“…And I couldn’t handle Katashi.”

He scoffed. “Certainly not. Now, we could attempt to time it so that Katashi would be less likely to respond personally, but if you reached your brother’s location, I can’t say if that would set off enough alarms to bring Katashi immediately. Even if you went in with a team of Emeralds — which I would not provide for you — Katashi would be too much for you to handle in a direct confrontation.”

“…And if I thought I had a way of beating him?”

Jacinth laughed. “Well, then I’d have underestimated either your foolishness or your capabilities. Or both. Do you think you have the means to defeat him?”

“I don’t know,” I admitted, “but I’m not certain I have a better choice.” “You do, at least to my mind. I can understand why, particularly with awar beginning, you might want to see to Tristan’s safety as quickly as possible. But that,” he shook his head, “isn’t the move I’d recommend. Unless I’ve vastly underestimated you — which is rare — I don’t think you’d even make it to him inside the spire if I got you inside. You lack the means to navigate to the right room, and if you did, Katashi would find you. His direct intervention wouldn’t even be necessary. More likely, Mizuchi would show up, and you’d be captured or killed.”

I grimaced. It wasn’t dissimilar from my own expectation, but it did give me a bit of information — he didn’t say anything about Lute or theSeventh Spire. It was possible that he didn’t know I already had a plan in motion. I didn’t want to let him onto that, so my next question continued along the lines we’d been discussing.

“What if you equipped me with something that could be used to fight them? The Ordinary Knife?”

He shook his head. “That trick worked because Tristan was able to get close to Tenjin without being suspicious — and multiple distractions were in play. Even in a situation where you’re capable of getting close enough to Katashi or Mizuchi with the knife, they’ll be ready for it. You wouldn’t be able to get a clean hit, and then you’d be disarmed. Then killed, if you’re very lucky.”

“The knife was just an example.” I waved at the Crowns pieces. “Surely you have access to other tools.”

“I do, of course. And I’d like to offer you the use of one, but not the kind that you stab someone with. It’s something that would be far more valuable, in the long run.”

“Which is?”

“Time.” He said it with a completely straight face. “…What, like chronomancy?”

“In a sense. I’m not going to teach it to you or give you an attunement, so don’t get your hopes up on that. But there’s a place that I can arrange for you to visit. Somewhere you can hone your skills with minimal interruption. It won’t be easy, and it won’t be free. You’d need to make things, but they’d be things you’d want to make anyway, and you wouldn’t be giving them to me. They’d be going toward your war effort.”

I frowned, processing. “Just to be clear, we’re talking about some sort of place…what, outside of time?”

“Not outside of it, but with a different relationship to it than here.” “What, the plane of time, then? Or—”

He raised a hand. I froze in alarm. “Ah, didn’t mean to startle you. You’re a bit jittery, aren’t you? Probably a good thing, but perhaps I should have let you rest and eat before our chat. I was simply stopping you because I won’t answer that directly. You have enough information to know if you want to make a deal and to understand the value.”

“Respectfully, no.” I shook my head. “There’s a tremendous difference in my response based on how much time it earns me, as well as risk factors, and whether or not I can get time magic out of it.”

“True.” He nodded. “Very well, then. In brief, I’ll say: months in days, moderate risk if you try anything foolish, and it would be difficult but not strictly impossible. I wouldn’t advise the last. If you end up practicing chronomancy, you’ll draw more attention that you don’t want.”

“From who?”

“My lovely family.” He smiled in a way that told me lovely was definitely not the word he was really thinking.

I took another breath, images of Saffron and what he’d done to Sera flashing unbidden through my mind. “…I don’t suppose you could protect me from the consequences of that?”

“Of course I could, if you were a direct, permanent agent in my employ.

But you’re not going to agree to that today, are you?” “…No.”

“Good. I would have lost respect for you if you did.” He nodded. “I’ll be direct, since you value that. For our initial deal, I will provide you with access to a location soon. It won’t appear to be under my control, mind you, but arrangements will be made for you to have access. You will be given resources for enchanting. Not limitless, but vast.”

“Define vast in this context.”

“At a minimum, enough raw materials to make the equivalent of ten thousand of your fancy personal shield sigils. Not that you’ll be in there long enough for that — I’m speaking strictly of material goods in scale.”

That…that was a lot.

Too much. If he was starting his bidding on that scale, that just made the whole thing more suspicious.

“When you say raw materials, do you mean just the physical item to enchant, or things like mana crystals?”

“Either or both. Also, books with more enchantments, if you need them.”

“Assistants?” I asked.

He flashed me a grin that looked very much like Derek. “A better question and a much harder ask, considering where you’re going. That would be very limited, but I can make inquiries. Assume you’d be alone for a significant time, but with some help here and there. You also won’t be trapped. You could leave at any time, provided you follow instructions and don’t get yourself stuck.”

That was a valuable clarification and one I probably should have asked about on my own. “What would get me stuck?”

“Mostly trying to go through the ‘don’t go through this door’ door.” “Right. That seems clear enough. Does it have mental compulsioneffects on it?”

“No, but it’s a very mysterious door.”

I groaned. “Okay. You’re talking about shield sigils — those are small items. What about materials for larger ones?”

“Easy. I was simply trying to give you an idea of resource scale. If you need prepared items for making swords, armor, shields, that’s all easy.”

“Golems?” I asked.

“Not a direction I expected from you, but it could be arranged.”

It wasn’t a direction I expected to focus on, either. I still had bits of a golem from the Tiger Spire in my bag, though, and I intended to do something with them eventually. More golem parts would help with that.

And I was very cognizant of the fact that if the Blackstone Assassin was this familiar with my abilities and interests, Katashi might be, too. I needed to find something I could use to my advantage that people like them wouldn’t expect. Something new.

“What is this going to cost me?” I asked.

“You will be given valuable time to train and grow stronger and improve your craft. In exchange, you will spend a significant portion of the time in the facility making things for the war effort. These items will be given to Elora Theas, who will allocate the items as she deems fit. I believe you’ve been working on something special, recently?”

I frowned at him. “That’s so vague that it sounds like cold reading.”

He laughed. “I mean your Summoner-contract items that don’t require a Summoner.”

I tried very hard not to show a reaction. “Should I ask how you know about those?”

“Corin, I don’t need a spy network for that one. You’re wearing one right now.”

That put me up short. “How?”

“You might not expect this, but I’m an information specialist spellcaster myself. My magical talents tend to run the opposite direction of many of my siblings — while they tend to lean toward illusion and deception, Icounter that with information gathering. No, I won’t teach you any magic. Not unless you work for me.”

I was getting more tempted by the minute. “…Okay. I’m going to note that you actually evaded the question of how you knew, by providing an answer on how you could have learned, but I’m not going to push on that.”

He gave me a tip of the head. “Wise. I’ll count that as a point in your favor. Now, how about making some of those toys for Valia’s military in a safe place?”

“I’m not opposed to it, but ‘some of those’ is awfully open-ended.”

“A reasonable concern. Don’t worry, I won’t be vague on this if we move forward — you can agree to hard numbers with Elora. My intent is not to overwork you or to tear every possible moment of your useful time away. Rather, it serves me better to help accelerate your growth, while still improving Valia’s standing.”

“Because you’ll be in control of Valia if Katashi is defeated?” I asked.

He shook his head. “No. Whatever you think of me, a puppet government is not what I’m looking for. It’s true that Elora has high ambitions, and she does work with me, but I am not in complete control of her, nor would she — in any reasonable scenario — have full control over Valia as a whole. It is, however, reasonable to say that I would have greater influence if Katashi’s efforts are defeated, and that influence will be necessary to turn Valia’s eyes toward an impending invasion of potential world-shattering scale.”

“You want to employ Valia’s military directly against the Sun Eater?” I asked.

“Not the entire military. That would be impractical and create future vulnerabilities. Rather, my plan is to keep Valia’s infrastructure largely intact throughout the war, then when the time comes, to have a variety of powerful individuals that can be deployed toward dealing with the Sun Eater’s agents. You would likely be one of those involved, but not necessarily in a battlefield role. My assessment is that you would be both safer and more useful in developing tools for the agents that we utilize more directly.”

“I’m not sure I like the idea of you having access to that much of Valia’s power.”

“That’s abundantly reasonable. In your position, knowing what you know, I would anticipate that the Blackstone Assassin would be using all ofthis in some sort of long game to ensure his sole control over the future of the continent.”

“…Are you?”

“No.” He didn’t elaborate. I blinked. “Just…no?”

“I have very specific goals. Controlling kingdoms is not my long-term interest. People are exhausting.”

I…didn’t think I’d ever relate to something a legendary villain said.

That was probably a bad sign. “What are your goals, then?” “Work with me long-term and you might figure that out.”

I sighed. “If I agree to this deal, it would just be for this…training in a specific area?”

“For the moment. We could agree to other things now, but my suggestion would be to use this as a test case.”

“Which you’ll make as ideal for me as possible, in order to earn my trust?”

“Naturally. Is that a bad thing for you?”

“That depends on how effective it is at shifting my perspective.” His smile widened. “Quite right.”

“Aside from that obvious trap, what else are you asking for? There have to be other conditions.”

“There are, yes.” He nodded, then reached under the table. I flinched, but he was just producing a small set of papers, presumably from a dimensional bag similar to mine. “Some basic terms. I think you’ll find them quite reasonable.”

Oh, this is probably where I sign away my soul.

I took a breath, inspecting the pages. In spite of my concerns, there was nothing that stood out to me as obviously amiss. I paid the most attention to the terms that looked like they could catch me in a violation:Section 4.2:Upon signature, Corin Cadence (hereafter “the contracted crafter”) agrees to the following terms:The contracted crafter will not disseminate the location of the facility they are assigned to, except to accepted parties (see section 8.1).

Prior to or upon entry to the facility, the contracted crafter will produce an expected production schedule for a type of product agreed upon with the facilitator (as defined in 3.2) or a designated third party (as defined in section 11.4). The contracted crafter will be expected to produce goods in accordance to this schedule except in the case of disastrous events (as defined in section 15.8) or if sufficient notice is given for a contract exception (see section 17.9).

The contracted crafter agrees that half of any goods (as defined in section 9.3) created during the time spent in the facility are owned by the facilitator.

The contracted crafter agrees to turn over the goods owned by the facilitator to a designated third party (as defined in section 11.4) upon request.

The contracted crafter is assumed to own the intellectual property related to any original creation (see section 19.2) generated in this time period, however, the facilitator reserves a non-exclusive, world-wide right to reproduce and modify any goods that they are allocated.

I paused at the last part. There were potential concerns with all of it, but that last part seemed the most concerning. “This section,” I pointed, “means you could take any item I give you and make as many copies or variants as you want.”

“There has to be a significant price for what you’re being given, Corin. And you should know that putting this into text is merely a formality — obviously, if you’re going to make a bunch of sigils for any company, they’re going to reverse engineer them. I’m just being up-front about it.”

I eyed him and the contract. He wasn’t lying, exactly. I would have expected something similar if I was working for Farren Labs. Still, I’d be effectively giving up the sigil design, as well as half of anything else I worked on.

Wait. Half?“…Where’s the definition of ‘half’ in here? Is it half in terms of sheer numbers of items, like five sigils out of ten? Or is it half in terms of…say, mana capacity used? Or monetary value? What happens if an item has multiple component parts? How is that measured?”

The Blackstone Assassin’s expression shifted for just a moment, losing a hint of the predatory gleam I’d noticed and shifting toward something more…respectful, maybe?I really hoped that was what it was.

“What an unusual question.” He glanced down at the papers, then back to me. “I don’t believe we did define that term. It seems rather self-evident on the surface, but you raise a salient point — in the realm of enchanting, there are complexities to this, aren’t there? I can’t exactly expect you to hand me half of a golem if you make one. It would rather defeat the point.” He paused, then leaned forward. “What do you propose for a definition?”

I took a deep breath, heart hammering. He wasn’t projecting any sort of killing intent, but I was deeply aware of how close he was, and how easy it would be for my life to be over if I did anything to displease him.

I’d never thought about death by terms of service agreement before, but here we are.

“Let’s say…” I took a breath. “Half of overall expected monetary value if the raw products generated in that time period were sold for revenue, as appraised by a mutually agreed upon third party. And, uh, let’s maybe add a section for third-party adjudication if there’s any sort of disagreement about value or delivery?”

“Done.” The Blackstone Assassin smiled. Then, with a hand, he flagged down a server and whispered in their ear. “That addendum will be drawn up shortly.”

I blinked. “You just have legal scribes hanging out in a tavern?”

“I wouldn’t consider any of our scribes legal, exactly.” He chuckled. “But if you’ll forgive the hint of crime humor, yes. Believe it or not, these locations are frequently used for business negotiation. Not just between people like you and myself, but between representatives of organizations. Making sure such agreements go smoothly is a service the tavern’s organizers offer.”

“You mean, the tavern doesn’t belong to you?” I asked.

“No, no.” He waved a hand. “More like neutral territory between a few of us. You’d be surprised how valuable that is. Now, did you have any further concerns?”

I frowned, pointed out a few more small things, and made revisions. Finally, still incredibly nervous, I asked a direct question. “You’ve been atleast giving me the appearance of being direct so far, so I’ll ask plainly. What are the downsides if I sign this?”

“I think you can sort some of those out yourself, but I’ll clarify one thing. Depending on timing, this may require you to leave the Emerald Council prior to certain important votes, which might feel like a significant concession, but without a personal vote, you wouldn’t have much of a direct role in those events. And yes, you could nudge your retainer one way or another, but he’s likely to vote the way you want even in your absence.”

I nodded. I was sure he knew that I wouldn’t actually see skipping the voting as much of a downside. Frankly, training in an area outside of conventional time sounded much more compelling than sitting around and talking to nobles and dealing with more backstabbing. “How soon would we do this?”

“Arrangements would need to be made. You should continue doing what you’re doing back at the tower for now, but if you agree, I will begin the relevant steps, and Elora will inform you when it is time to leave.”

“Before that. Do you have any solutions to the problems my sister is facing?”

“If you agree to this deal, I’ll provide you with some answers right now.

But that will be my only bonus — no other major questions.”

I paused. “I’ll tentatively agree, provided that the information you give me is worthwhile and that the specific details of the training itself aren’t absurd. You’d have to agree that I can back out if, for example, Elora asks me to make so many items I’d have to burn out my star veins to succeed.”

“Yes, of course. Neither of us wants you crippled. That’s acceptable to me.” He offered me a hand to shake.

I eyed his hand. “I, uh…”

“The touch aversion? Or simply unwilling to take the risk that I might steal your power?”

“Both?”

“Good. A bit of other free information, then. You should have looked at me with Detect Aura earlier. You’d have figured out I’m a simulacrum, and thus, I don’t have those infamous vae’kes power stealing abilities.”

“That statement is a trap. You might not have those, but I’m confident you could still just do something like what Tristan can do, even if you can’t access your other abilities.”

“Well-discerned.” He put his hand down. “Very well, then. No handshake required. You agree to the terms as spoken, and you plan to sign the paperwork after this?”

“I do, tentatively.”

“Excellent. For clarity, I agree to the terms as well, tentatively. And, as promised.” He snapped his fingers. A book appeared on the table. “Forgive the theatrics.” He nudged the book closer.

I eyed the cover.

“The Blessed Cursed: A Tale of Recursive Rebirths,” I read aloud. “This is about Sera’s situation?”

“Not exactly. Sera isn’t shal. Rather, she either died or came so close to it that Seiryu acted, freezing her spirit and connected star veins. This functioned in a way analogous to stasis magic, preventing Sera’s spirit from leaving her body and entering into the cycle of reincarnation. Essentially, it bought her time. Your own spells — which I’ll admit were quite timely — helped to repair some of the damage to her spirit and shade, which may have helped to make sure there was something salvageable left of her, both in terms of her physical body and shade. Aayara’s work was both overt and subtle, repairing physical damage to the body to ensure that it was usable, as well as manipulating connections between layers of self to allow her to be somewhat functional while her spirit remains frozen.”

That was…a lot to take in. And much more direct than I expected. No sage-like riddles, just…real answers. Or false ones, I supposed, but I didn’t see much motivation for lies at this stage in the process. “…You know a great deal about this. Were you watching the whole thing?”

“No. I reconstructed the events in the aftermath using memory sorcery. Aayara, however, was likely watching from the start. She had more of a personal investment in that affair.”

“Then…” I frowned.

“She could have stepped in at any time, yes. But vae’kes generally do not fight other vae’kes directly. We prefer to act through proxies.”

“She could have helped us escape, at least. Or made Saffron leave.”

The Blackstone Assassin frowned. “Why in the world would she do that, when the entire event was serving her interests?”

“Including her brother’s death?”

“Ah. I suppose that might be a little strange to you, given how dedicated you are to your family. Laudable, I suppose. But our relationships are a bitmore complex than that. And Saffron…” He shook his head. “He made poor choices.”

“Poor choices? You’d let a family member die for that?”

“You appear to be taking this more personally than I expected.” He frowned. “Perhaps it would be better to be direct, then. I’ve killed for my family before, including people I would have much rather had as friends. I’ve risked my life for my family on many occasions. Saffron took steps that made him not family to me. Nothing as extreme as the actions of your father, but I will make the comparison because, perhaps, you could see it as a case with enough weight that cutting someone off might be worthwhile. And if you can’t see that, I suspect you should rethink things in regards to him. That man is not worth calling a father.”

“…I don’t want to talk about him.”

The Blackstone Assassin nodded. “I understand better than you might realize. But I offered one specific thing to help you, and we’re meandering into different territory.”

“I’d still like some clarity on Aayara’s role in that event.”

“I won’t say much more, but I will say this — she didn’t hurt Saffron directly. She just put people into play, much as he did, and things fell the way they did.”

“She didn’t take steps to inhibit his abilities? Perhaps his regeneration?” He blinked, seeming genuinely surprised. “What do you mean?”

“It wasn’t the only time I fought Saffron. In our first encounter, I saw him suffer a wound from Ceris holding a Sapphire-level spell that blew out his entire chest. He walked that off. Even accounting for elemental weaknesses, the damage he suffered from Selys-Lyann and Bright Reflection should not have been as severe as that.”

“…Perceptive of you. I can say that there was a difference there, but it was not Aayara stepping in that caused it.”

“Was it you, then?”

“No.” He shook his head. “It would be more accurate to say that he made a choice that limited his own abilities.”

“What does that—”

He lifted a finger. “Dangerous territory, Cadence. You’re asking me about a subject beyond what was promised, as well as one that could directly provide you with information that could be used against other members of my family. Ones that I still care for.”

“Right. I’ll drop the subject.”

He nodded once, curt. “Wise. Now, in regards to Sera, that book will provide you with more information on possible ways to proceed. They are not your only options, but they are what Aayara was hinting at when she dropped you the shal vial.”

“Would you advise something different?” I asked.

“Hm. Any route forward offers advantages and disadvantages. The shal route offers greater power to her, but with downsides and risk. It is not the route I would take, given her situation, but it may be the wisest.”

“What would you do?”

“I don’t like permanent downsides. I prefer to play things the longer way, slow and steady, accumulating small advantages gradually. In that case, the best way to approach that would be to beseech Seiryu for help directly. Have Seiryu reverse the freezing effect on the star veins and spirit, then immediately utilize some other asset for incredibly powerful healing, before Sera dies again.”

“A Goddess’ Tear?” I asked.

“No. Wouldn’t work at this stage. You need a different type of healing.

Ferras or Suzaku might be able to provide it, or someone on their scale.” “Could you?”

“No.” He shook his head. “Even if I wanted to, healing at that level is not within my abilities. I have an ally that might, off-continent, but…” He shook his head. “The politics wouldn’t be good. You’re better off going through others.”

“Could you ask Elora to have Suzaku help?”

“I could, but that would make it less likely for Suzaku to stand in, if I was the one asking.”

I frowned at that. “Then, does Suzaku know…?”

“That Elora is working with me? Without a doubt. We’re pulling on her from different directions. I can’t say I have a complete model of Suzaku’s motives, but my best guess is that she’s operating under the belief that I’ll abandon Elora eventually, at which point Suzaku will step in and have Elora’s entire loyalty.”

“Is she right?” I asked.

He looked at me very directly, eyes meeting mine. “I have no intention of abandoning Elora, as long as she doesn’t make the mistake of turning on me. And if she does…I don’t leave loose ends.”

I shivered. And, for the first time in several minutes, I remembered — really remembered — who I was talking to. “Right. That…thank you.”

“You’re welcome. Now, if you’re satisfied?” He gestured toward the papers.

This is probably going to get me killed, isn’t it?Nursery rhymes about the Blackstone Assassin played through my mind as I signed my name on the page.

Well, as far as poor life choices go, I might have a new peak.

I pushed the papers across to him. He signed his side of it. “Wonderful.

I’m pleased we have an agreement.”

In spite of any worries in my mind, he didn’t immediately shank me from across the table or anything. Instead, he simply shifted to get up. “Now, if there isn’t anything else, I suspect your friend is very worried about you, and they serve excellent food downstairs. Most of it isn’t even poisoned.” He gave me a wink.

“That’s…”

“Just a bit of mandatory teasing. For the future, be more careful who you bring with you. Elora told you that you had safe passage to and from for this meeting. She said nothing about anyone else. Mara has not been harmed because it is not in my interests to cause her harm. For the future? Be more circumspect. Your friends will live longer that way.” He tapped the table. “And with that, I’m off. Enjoy your lunch.”

He stood up from the table, then vanished outright. No flash, no smoke— he was just gone without a trace.

Unless one counted the figures on the table in front of us, of course.

Somehow, without my notice, a new figure had been placed on the table. An Arbiter, standing next to the Blackstone Assassin figure he’d shown me earlier.

Me. Standing off the board, but close enough to step onto it if I chose.

