CHAPTER XXIII – SHADES OF THE PAST

I knelt at Mara’s side, breathing deeply. It didn’t help. I was angry.

We were going to make a deal, I repeated in my mind. We had a deal.

Shade Sera’s insinuations had been easy enough for me to understand without being explicit. She was enough like the real one that I could tell she was talking around the subject deliberately — perhaps because she feared the possibility of exactly what had just happened.

If I’d been faster, if I’d been better prepared, I could have added the Summoner functions to my own attunement and made contracts with each of them.

They could have lived. We could have taken them to Len, given them mana batteries, let them live long lives of their own. They could have broken the contracts then, or kept them if they wanted. I’m sure a Shade Mara would have been happy to serve as extra combat backup for us, just to get a chance to fight strong opponents. Shade Patrick probably would have, too, mostly just because he liked being helpful.

All at once, I felt like I understood why Keras was so angry, in his own calm and relaxed way, about the injustice of how these shrines worked.

Vek.

I punched the ground.

“What’s wrong?” Mara asked, now seated with her back to the wall. “They’re gone, Mara.”

“What?” she asked. “It’s only been minutes. And the key is still here.

The room hasn’t reset.”

She pointed at the key, where Shade Corin had left it on the floor. I picked it up, carrying it over to Mara, and sat down.

“…A reset. If we wait, do you think they’ll remember?”

She shook her head. “That’s not what reset usually means, Corin. And if the shrine made them vanish…”

“The crystal probably doesn’t want them to leave or make this sort of deal.” I shook my head. “Are we ascribing too much deliberate intent to the shrine on this? Their vanishing could be a default that happens a set time after they lose the key.”

“Maybe,” she said, “but I don’t think we’ll know that until we talk to the crystal. And judging by the way the first two rounds against that group went, we can’t handle a third one if they decide to attack again.”

I took a deep breath again. It didn’t help.

“Easy,” she told me. “You didn’t do anything wrong.”

“I didn’t tell them to stay here. If I did, maybe they wouldn’t have vanished. Or if I’d seen it happening, maybe—”

“You need to stop taking responsibility for every tragedy that happens remotely near you, Corin.” She reached out for my hand, wincing at the movement pulling at her stomach.

She was apparently out of it enough that she didn’t remember my usual touch aversion. I processed that, thought about it, took a breath and…The breath didn’t help.

But this time, oddly enough, holding Mara’s hand did.

We closed our eyes together for a minute in silence. For ourselves, to rest. And for our other selves, who would never open their eyes again.

***As the rage gradually subsided, my mind fell back into focus.

We had limited time if we wanted to move forward. My items were recharging, slowly but surely, and I had access to my batteries again.

Mara was still very clearly too injured to stand, let alone fight.

“Going to throw another strong Regeneration spell on your wound. The first one has probably worn off at this point.”

“Please,” she said.

I leaned in, putting my hands over the wound and cast a Sunstone-level Regeneration spell on it. There was no immediate visible change, since she was wrapped in bandages. I wasn’t pleased to see that she was bleeding through them, but I couldn’t do much about that other than replace them after I was more confident the bleeding had stopped. “I could use the transcendent version, it might help faster—”

“You’re sweet, but no. This isn’t fatal, and it hasn’t been six months since Sheridan warned you against using that. Maybe change the bandages in a few, though? These are sticky, and I think it’s finally sealed.”

I nodded. I wanted to take the time to clean it properly before re- wrapping it, too, but we had limited time before the hard-earned key vanished.

I removed the existing bandages, did a cursory cleaning of the blood. The wound itself was still something that would need eventual treatment or significant rest to heal properly, but only a couple small corners were actively bleeding. I dabbed those with drops from the healing potion, dried it off with another section of bandage, then began to re-wrap her.

Mara waved for me to hand her the bandage roll. “I’ll finish it. Gonna be awkward, but I’ll have a few minutes to play with it while you’re in there. Don’t waste this chance,” Mara said, wincing. “Get in there and handle the last room.”

“You sure?” I asked. “We could leave at this point. The void bomb didn’t ruin our items — they’re recharging.”

“No,” she told me. “Finish it. For them.”

I nodded in understanding, handing her the bandages and pushing myself to my feet. “For them.”

“Key won’t last that long. Which reminds me. Hand it here?”

I passed it to her. She put her hand on the key. I saw a flash of mana from her hand. “What’s that?”

“Real basic stasis spell. Stasis is enhancement mana. Can’t say for sure if it’ll actually work, but it might buy you a little longer before the key vanishes. Or it might not. Get moving.”

I nodded. “You’ll be okay without me?”

“Don’t feel like I’m fainting or anything. A few minutes won’t kill me. You’re the one we should be worrying about. You said our stuff is recharging, but check the anchors?”

“Good call.” I went and checked the anchors we’d left outside each of the rooms. They were partially recharged, but I finished recharging them from a battery. “They’re usable now.”

“Good.” She slipped the circlet off her head. “Take the extra. That way, you have one to use to attack her, and one to retreat if you need to, or just to get out of the room faster.”

I took the circlet. “Okay, makes sense. Except…if I teleport her out here with it, she’ll be with you. That’s bad.”

“Can we backtrack in here?” she asked. “Sure,” I told her. “I think so.”

“Stick the anchor to a wall in the room with all of the disappearing platforms. Maybe she’ll fall into the endless void.”

I laughed. “Love it. She can fly, though.”

“Right into the invisible walls and circular saws, hopefully.” Mara grinned at me. “Not that I expect it to beat her, of course, but we just need to get the keys and move.”

“Good call.”

I backtracked, setting up the anchor for Mara’s circlet like she’d suggested, then returned. Fortunately, the key we’d obtained hadn’t vanished yet, but I’d have to hurry.

When I got back to Mara, she had one more thing for me. She gestured toward where she’d taken the scabbard off her belt and rested onto the floor. “Take it.”

“You sure?”

“Absolutely certain. You need every tool you can get, Corin. She’s dangerous. I’m serious.”

“I hear you.” I picked up Bright Reflection, debating for a moment. I could have put the sword in one of the symbols on my Belt of Swords, but instead, I fastened the sword’s scabbard to the belt the typical way. Then, I pulled out a couple mana batteries, clipped them onto my belt, and connected mana threads to the sword and batteries.

I drew Selys-Lyann, connected a mana thread to that as well, and took a deep breath.

Okay. About as ready as I’m going to get.

I stepped inside.

As I entered the room, I looked around just to see if there was anything Mara had missed. Much as I’d expected, the room was more familiar to me than it could have been to her —It was the very same room where Tristan, Sera, and I had fought Mizuchi in the spire. In fact, the opposite wall — the one that would, if I wasn’t mistaken, lead into the room with the copies of my midterm team — was a replica of the door to Tenjin’s sanctum.

Was that intended to be a hint? I didn’t know.

I’d blow it open if I couldn’t get our planned solutions to work. Keras- brand solutions weren’t the best idea here, but I wouldn’t discount them, either.

In the center of that room, between me in the sanctum, was exactly what Mara had described.

Mizuchi’s shade looked like…well, Mizuchi.

If I’m being honest, if I hadn’t known that she was a shade, I might have mistaken her for the real thing. She didn’t look like she was composed of shadow, or even darker-colored and semi-corporeal like the shades of my group — she just looked like herself, complete with purple hair and fangs, with perhaps a little less color than she should have had. Like a version of Mizuchi that was stuck in between greyscale and color.

“Well, well.” Shade Mizuchi stepped forward. “If it isn’t the least dangerous Cadence sibling.”

I rested Selys-Lyann against my shoulder. “Not in the mood for banter right now. I’d like to give you a chance to surrender, though. Maybe even work with me, here. You know you’re not the actual Mizuchi, right?”

“Oh, I’m quite aware.” She lifted up a hand, seeming to examine her own clawed fingers. “It’s liberating, really. Different restrictions, of course, but none of the ones that have weighed on me since my birth. You have no idea what that feels like.”

I hated even hearing that voice, feared every syllable. She’d done so much harm. Or, at least, someone who looked just like her had.

But with every word, every experience, I was learning how ignorant I’d been. I wanted to do better.

So, I fought my fear. Hands trembling, I gave it an honest effort. “Why don’t you tell me about it? I’ll listen, if you want. If you aren’t forced to fight me—”

“You misunderstand, but that’s nothing new.” Mizuchi laughed. “I have no interest in bargaining or parley. You have been given so many blessings, handed so much with so little expected in return, and still you spit in the face of the goddess.”

“If this is about the whole ‘Valia is consorting with Children of the Tyrant’ thing, my friends and I fought and killed Saffron. We lost a great deal in the process.”

“You expect my gratitude for that? Saffron was just one problem among many.”

I shook my head. “We’re working on it. The average person in Valia had no idea about Saffron, or anyone else like it. You can’t hold us responsible for that. If you know of others, tell me, and I’ll do what I can.”

“You are one of the problems, Cadence. You’ve been compromised from the moment you picked up a rusted sword. So, if you want to help me out,” she moved a finger to her neck and brought it across in a slashing gesture, “feel free.”

“Not going to do that. But if you want to talk about the sword—”

“Enough!” She took a step forward. I could feel pressure in the air as she approached, a subtle tingling down my spine. “I’ll break that blade like I have a dozen times before. This shrine will be a suitable final resting place for a thing of shadow.”

“Fine. You want to do this the hard way?” I shifted into a combat stance. “I’ll play. Do you think you’re capable of putting up as much of a fight as the real Mizuchi did, or do you expect to lose right away?”

One of her eyes twitched. “I’m going to wipe that smile off your face, child.”

A quick glance didn’t show any unlit torches, just as Mara had indicated. Instead, the ceiling had those crystals Mara had mentioned in it— which were a little out-of-place in my recollection — and a few scattered runes etched into the walls.

Can’t be the same ones as the real spire, though, or Mara wouldn’t have been able to teleport out. Not enough of them, either. Maybe—Mizuchi was in front of me in the next moment, a clawed hand flashing toward the center of my chest.

My eyes widened at the demonstration of speed — or, perhaps teleportation — but I wasn’t completely unprepared. A quick burst of transference from my ring of jumping took me out of the way of the swing. Then when she followed up the attack with a blast of lightning hurled from one of her claws, I slapped that out of the air with Selys-Lyann’s flat and raised the sword into a defensive stance.

“You’ve gotten faster,” she remarked.

“…Strangely, so have you, I think.” I might have allowed a bit of concern into my voice.

She laughed. “No, not really. I’m nothing like the original, I know. But that also means I don’t have the rules that she does.” She clapped her hands.

A thunderous roar filled the room, so loud that I would have been deafened in an instant if not for my barriers and shrouds cutting down the sound.

Even then, the sound sent me staggering, backward — right as Mizuchi blurred, vanishing from sight.

Teleporting behind someone who was distracted was, frankly, one of the simplest possible ways to use that kind of magic — and under ordinary circumstances, a powerful opponent would play with the expectation of that technique, going somewhere other than directly behind the opponent with the expectation that they’d spin around.

As it happened, though, shade-Mizuchi played it straight, and I reacted just about as well as you’d expect from someone who had just been stunned by a near-deafening thunderclap — that is to say, not at all.

Mizuchi smashed a hand straight into the center of my back with spine- cracking force.

I flew forward from the impact, going from half-stumble into a tumble, hitting the ground and rolling forward, then recovering up into what might have been an impressive jump back to my feet if Mizuchi hadn’t reappeared right in front of me, her hand pulled back and ready to swing.

Oh, vek. Jump.

I tried to hurl myself aside, but I wasn’t quite fast enough to dodge completely. Her clawed hand glowed black as she swung, shredding through my shrouds and drawing bleeding marks across my chin. Then, before I could even fully regain my stance, she was in front of me again, grabbing my collar and pulling her head back.

What? My barriers should have stopped— Is she using void mana?I was staggered and barely resisting the urge to vomit from the rapid movement — I had no good way to counter her strike.

I didn’t bother.

I slammed my head against her collarbone before she could finish bringing her skull down on mine.

“Return.”

I pushed on the mana of the circlet, focusing hard to push it into her, rather than myself—And then she was gone.

I breathed a sigh of relief, grimaced, and rubbed at my forehead. “That was…”

“A wonderful ploy.”

I spun around at the sound of Mizuchi’s voice.

“Thing is, Cadence, I already warned you.” Shade-Mizuchi lifted a hand to her chin and laughed. “I don’t have to follow her rules here. You teleport me? Wonderful. I just teleport right back.”

“…Oh.” I gave her a chagrinned look, scratching my head. “Well- played?”

“You too.” She gave me a little bow.

Then she pulled back her fist, a black aura around it, and swung at me again.

Radiant Shroud.

A burst of mana flared out from my body, light mana interwoven with transference. I’d failed at Tavare’s training on how to properly reflect spells with that combination of mana types, but as it turns out, that kind of mana manipulation technique has other uses.

As Mizuchi’s hand passed through it, the black aura vanished—And, without the defense-piercing void aura, her claw slammed into the shield sigil barriers. The strike was still strong enough to carry me back several steps, but she hissed in pain as she pulled her hand back. Smoke rose from her fingertips.

Haste. Jump.

I closed the distance as she shook her injured hand, swinging Selys- Lyann in a downward cut.

She grabbed my sword by the blade. “I warned you that I’d—”

I released the sword immediately, stepped forward, and shoved my palms directly into her face.

Luminous Arc.

A coruscating flare of radiance blasted out from my hands as I activated Bright Reflection through my mana thread, then used my own transference mana to change the origin point of the attack.

As Mizuchi screamed and fell backward, I drew from the light mana battery hooked to my waist, pouring more and more into the blinding assault, until finally, the battery had been bled dry. I couldn’t see Bright Reflection, but if I could, the sword’s blade would have been cold and dark.

I’d drained every bit from those items and nearly half of my own mana.

It still wasn’t enough.

Mizuchi fell to her knees, clutching her face as smoke rose from the wound.

“You…insolent…”

Wings burst from Mizuchi’s back as she began to transform, her grip on Selys-Lyann’s blade tightening.

I snapped my fingers, releasing a burst of spirit mana directly from Selys-Lyann’s blade into Mizuchi’s hand.

She roared, flipping the sword around and hurling it at me. I side- stepped the throw, then touched a symbol on the belt on my side.

Shroudstealer appeared in my hand.

Mizuchi rose, scales covering every inch of exposed skin on her body as she changed to her hybrid form, beginning to repair the damage to her body—Which was utterly irrelevant, as I jabbed Shroudstealer right through the center of her chest.

She froze in shock. Honestly, I did, too.

The sword was built with Mizuchi in mind. I knew it’d be likely to cut through a weaker copy of Mizuchi’s shrouds with relative ease.

I had not, however, considered the fact that this copy of Mizuchi was made out of solid mana. And, given how much I’d already weakened her with light mana, that “solid” part wasn’t quite as impressive as it might have been otherwise.

There was no blood, just wisps of smoke.

She turned her head up to meet my eyes, reaching up with both hands to grab my blade and hold it in her hands. And then, in one last act of spite, she opened her jaws, lightning crackling between them.

My other hand came up to her mouth.

Shivering Shroud.

Light, transference, and ice mana formed right over the palm of my hand.

The resulting flare as lightning collided with my reshaped shroud was blinding—Which was probably for the best, because unlike what Tavare had tried to teach me, my Shivering Shroud technique was perfectly effective at reflecting spells. And reflecting a serpent’s breath weapon at point blank range?Even if she was made of solid mana, I can’t imagine the result was pretty.

By the time my vision returned, there was no sign of my opponent. Just a single key, gleaming in the light.

This was a good thing, because even reinforcing my shroud and focusing it entirely around my hand, I hadn’t managed to reflect her entire blast. My left hand was blistered and burned, my shroud and mana drained to nearly nothing.

But it didn’t matter.

I could barely believe it.

Copy or not, even if she’d been weaker than the version I’d fought with Tristan in the spire…I’d won.

***With only one uninjured hand, I spent an awkward minute storing Shroudstealer, picking up Selys-Lyann and storing that, then pouring the last remaining drops of my healing potion on my burned hand.

After that, I fumbled through my bag with my good hand to grab my life mana battery and used that to power a regeneration spell. It wasn’t a good idea to combine that with the ones from my shield sigils regularly, but this was a bad enough injury that I felt it was worth the risk.

The rest of my wounds could wait. I picked up the key, staggered back to the previous room, and gave Mara a smile.

“You’re walking. You didn’t teleport. Did you...win?”

I gave her an annoyed look. “You don’t have to sound so surprised.” “Corin, she absolutely wrecked me. She had to be Citrine-level, at least.

Beating her one-on-one…that’s no small feat.”

“You warned me about what I was up against. Also, I cheated. Like…a lot.”

“How’d you manage it?”

“I’ll tell you later. For now, keys into door? I really don’t want them to vanish. I did that once, but I don’t think there’s any chance I could do it again.”

***We staggered into the chamber ahead, both exhausted, blooded, and bruised. I stumbled, and Mara stepped in to catch me with her good arm. I didn’t flinch away. I let her help me walk. I needed it.

The floors were slick black stone carved into individual squares, barely visible in spite of the light my circlet was still emanating. Something was reducing the intensity of my enchantment’s light, which didn’t surprise me. The source was obvious enough, looming over us just ahead.

The Shade Gateway Crystal.

A colossal thing of dark grey and black, the gateway crystal looked like it had burst through a segment of the perfectly carved tile floor. I assumed that was probably a deliberate aesthetic flourish, given that the crystal likely predated the shrine around it, but I couldn’t know for certain. Did the crystals grow larger over time? Technically possible, I supposed. Maybe the original location for the crystal was down below somewhere, and we were just seeing the top of it?That was a bit daunting, if true. The scale it implied…even the visible section of the crystal loomed dozens of feet above us.

I didn’t focus on that, though. I had more important questions. And so, it seemed, did the crystal ahead of us.

[Success. Success.] [Ask. Ask.]I blinked at the repetition. It felt like I was hearing the same voice twice, partially overlapping. Not quite an echo — the voices were too close together.

A little hard to parse, but it could have been worse. I’d been a little worried the shade shrine would speak backward or something.

“Mara? You go first?” [Go first, go first…]Mara took a deep breath, then nodded to me. “Great crystal, you created several people to fight against us. Copies of ourselves that seemed to wish to live on. Can you revive them?”

[Already…gone…gone…]Mara’s remaining hand tightened. “Really wish you’d stop making people and throwing them away like that. It’s disturbing.”

[Not…true…life…]I frowned at that. “What do you mean?”

[Other…shrines…make life. I make…mere…shades.] “What’s the distinction?” I asked, folding my arms.

[Shades…have no will of their own…of their own…]“It certainly seemed like they had motivation. They seemed to want to live.”

[Only…because…you expected them to.]Mara tilted her head to the side. “Meaning what, exactly?” [Do you wish…to use your boon…to know this?]Mara paused. I shook my head at her.

“This isn’t like what Keras was dealing with in the spirit shrine. We’ve been told directly that there is no one to save. I’m not happy about what we saw, either, but we can investigate it later. We came here for a reason, Mara. You should ask for the boon you came here to achieve.”

“I feel like I’d be failing him if I just accept this kind of answer. He was willing to give up on—”

I cut her off. A little rude, maybe, but I couldn’t let her think like that. “This whole system is a mess, Mara. I won’t dispute that. If the crystal is telling us the shades we fought weren’t really alive, and it will cost a boon to ask more…frankly, that’s a bad deal. We have books for questions like that and people we can ask without that kind of price being extracted.”

“And the copies of us that just vanished?” she asked.

“Already gone. We’re just going to have to live with that.” I took a breath. “For now. Until we’re strong enough to make the changes we want to change — and, more importantly, knowledgeable enough to know which changes actually should be made.”

She hung her head. “It doesn’t feel right, just asking for something for myself.”

I took a step forward, putting a hand on her shoulder. “That’s a good sign about the type of person you are. But you earned this boon. And I have no doubt you’ll use any strength it gives you to fight to save others.”

She turned her head upward, looking straight at me. I held her gaze as long as I could. Then, finally, she nodded and turned away from me, facing the crystal.

“Great crystal of shade, my hand was lost in a battle, my spirit and shade wounded too badly to heal. Can you regrow my hand, restoring it to what it once was?”

[…What it once was…once was…] [No.]Mara lowered her head. “No? Really? After all that, the answer is no?”

[Multi-layer structural damage. Backup lost. Unable to restore from backup. Multi-layer reconstruction required.]I blinked. This part was less echoey and a bit more like…a recorded answer? I frowned, but didn’t say anything.

“I…understand.” Mara took a breath, disappointment obvious, but we knew this was the likely outcome. “Could you give me a bond to the dominion of shade, then, so that I might learn how to use it to eventually restore that layer myself?”

[Restoration will be difficult…difficult…]Mara nodded, looking a little more determined. “I’d need to learn how to restore each layer independently, right?”

[Not independently…together.]Mara blinked. “You mean…fix everything all at once, across all layers?”

[For ideal result.]She took a deep breath at that. “…That…definitely sounds more difficult.”

[Difficult…difficult…] “Let’s do it anyway.”

[Request granted. Query: Target location.]Mara raised her good hand. “Figure it’ll be easier to direct like this. Maybe help learn to use this hand as a template for the other hand to some degree, too.”

[Request granted.]A dark grey symbol flashed across Mara’s hand — then, without so much as a window of time for a “thank you,” she vanished.

I stumbled again, no longer having Mara to bear my weight, then turned back toward the crystal.

“I take it you just sent her outside?” [Outside…outside…] the crystal agreed.

“Okay.” I took a breath. “I have a sword with a complex sapient spirit. Therin Thorn.” I patted the sword at my side. “The spirit was banished. I had a seal expert handle restoring—-”

[Aware of sword’s state. State query.] “Can you restore Therin Thorn?”

[Yes…yes…] “Okay, then—”

[Will not...will not...] I blinked. “Why?”

[Existential threat presented through interaction with artifact containing memory of King of Thorns.]I blinked. “I…uh...huh.” I considered that. “I think the fragment is a minimal representation of the King of Thorns, and he wouldn’t be aggressive, I don’t think. Especially if you helped him.”

[Fragment is irrelevant. Greater will of King of Thorns presents existential threat.]“…Is that relevant? Is he watching us? Would he know?” [Please request another boon at this time.]I shivered at the non-reply.

Well…that’s foreboding. Okay.

Hope he likes that I’m asking for help, at least?“Right. Another request.” I took a breath. “My sister recently went through a near-death situation and has damage to her spirit and shade.”

[Sister is not present at shrine. Please request another boon at this time.]I could sense the shade shrine’s impatience. Were they nervous? About the King of Thorns?That made me nervous.

In terms of other things to ask for, the most obvious was another crystal mark, but I wasn’t sure I wanted to use up another Dianis Point on that. Not when it wouldn’t compound directly with my existing ones, and I could, in theory, get something that was more suitable for my abilities.

Then again, the shrines had more options than just their own personal dominion in terms of bonds. Sera had gotten a density bond out of the transcendence shrine. Was that type of thing an option here?“Could you give me a crystal mark for a dominion related to transference?”

[Transference antithetical to key dominion components. No transference bond options available.]That settled that question. It was a little odd, given that I was pretty sure density conflicted with transcendence in a similar fashion, but I also didn’t think the shrine had patience to get into antithetical dominion interaction theory.

I considered just asking the crystal to help heal any remaining damage I’d suffered during the battle with Saffron from over-exerting myself. It wasa valid request from a healing-focused crystal, but…as far as I could tell, I would recover on my own. It would take months, but I already had a workaround for my lack of Enchanter abilities. I regretted not being able to use transcendence as much as I wanted, but crystals like this weren’t easy to access. If I was going to ask for a reward, I wanted it to be something that would have a long-term impact on my life.

Admittedly, given that we were in a potentially dangerous situation, getting immediate access to my full abilities could be life-altering. I knew I could die if I didn’t have access to my full abilities, or someone else might die because of my weakness. That was an unsettling possibility, but even so, asking for a one-time healing session didn’t feel like the right use of a boon.

Not when I had a way to accomplish something similar, but with a potentially greater long-term benefit.

It was a long shot. But, at times, those gambles were worth taking.

“I’ve heard essence sorcerers have access to abilities tied into other layers of self. Spirit bonds, similar to what I have with my sword. Shade weaves, memory marks…”

[Ask your question.]“Are you capable of granting a shade weave to someone who isn’t strictly an essence sorcerer of the appropriate level?”

[Evaluating eligibility criteria.]A shadow washed over me. My attunements briefly flared bright white, as if attempting to resist the tenebrous dark, but I didn’t feel any pain or harm. If anything, I thought I sensed a hint of mental mana in the air around me, but so suffused with umbral power that it was hard to discern.

[Diagnostics completed…completed.] I raised an eyebrow. “And?”

[Two artificial wellsprings detected. Total essence capacity sufficient to constitute spirit-layer essence sorcerer.][One spirit bond detected. Functionality limited.][One artificial spirit bond detected. Essence exchange active: essence levels negligible.][One	primal	wellspring	detected.	Total	essence	level	negligible: comparable to Candle-level wellspring.]Primal	wellspring?	That	must	mean	my	crystal	mark?	That’s… fascinating, okay.

“And in total?”

[Essence levels insufficient for standard prerequisites for shade weave, but within allowable safety margins.]Huh.

I hadn’t expected that to be a “yes”.

“Okay. Can you, uh, maybe explain a bit more about shade weaves to me, then, for some better context?”

[Please select a wellspring location for your shade weave. Note that your spirit bond location for Therin Thorn is not an acceptable option.]“Does it have to be a spot where I already have a Dianis Point filled with something?” I asked. “I don’t want it to interfere with something that has — or could have — an antithetical dominion.”

[Any wellspring location can be utilized. Note that functionality will be limited without a connected wellspring.]I nodded. That made things more difficult. Shade was a combination of umbral and life mana, and I didn’t want the umbral mana to conflict, but having limited functionality if I put it on a different location was sub- optimal.

“Could you give me a shade weave that only utilizes life mana? On my right hand, since that already has an attunement with life mana?”

[Designate shade weave function.]“Regeneration for essence structures and other layers of self, if that’s possible?” I asked quickly, thinking of the obvious.

[This is possible, but with limitations.] “What sort of limitations?” I asked.

[Life essence, as typically used in the human body, principally heals physical bodily structures. Life aspects that impact essence structures exist, as do life aspects that tie to other layers of self, but they incorporate fragments of other essence types. Incorporating any one of these aspects would reduce the overall efficacy of the weave.]“And incorporating multiple of them would reduce the effect cumulatively?”

[Yes.]I considered that for a minute. Just having physical regeneration was potentially massively useful in combat, but…that wasn’t really my greatest concern. Obviously, I didn’t want to be critically injured, but I had access to powerful physical healers, and I already had physical regeneration items. I could make better ones on my own, too.

I don’t necessarily need something that heals every layer of self, do I? Just the ones I’m risking with my actions. So…spirit, shade, memory, transcendence, general essence structures…That’s almost all of them, isn’t it?At this rate, I’ll probably break the rest eventually. Yeah, I need all of it.

I nodded, more to myself than the crystal. “How much weaker would each layer added make the overall weave?”

[You can assume that the efficacy would be roughly divided by the number of layers you’re regenerating, then reduced marginally further.]“So a full set of aspects, including physical regeneration and the essence self, would be something lower than one ninth the effectiveness of something that just heals the body?”

[Yes. Assume closer to one tenth.]I nodded again. “That’s still worth it. Thank you for answering my questions. I’d like a regeneration weave for the full set of aspects for each layer of self, including essence structures.”

Green, soothing light wrapped around my right hand. I felt energy flooding outward from the center of my hand to my fingertips, then up my wrist, gradually fading.

[Shade weave completed. Do not return.]Then, without so much as a goodbye, I was wrapped in blackness, and I found myself standing outside.

