CHAPTER XXVII – THE DALENOS SIX

“Now announcing the entrance of Lord Corin Cadence, esteemed head of House Cadence, Wielder of Selys-Lyann, Apprentice of Keras Selyrian, and Arbiter of Katashi.”

Len’s voice rang out across the massive gathering chamber. The room was an unfamiliar one, a massive circular chamber that took up most of an entire floor of the colossal tower. Much of the floor space was left open, while large sections were designated to color-coded seating for each delegation. There were no fewer than five separate bar areas for drinks, as well as tables with food, and an entrance to a larger kitchen area.

An attendant standing near the door — a female karvensi dressed in a pristine black-and-white checkered suit and tie with an elegant top hat — gestured for me to follow her toward the Valian section. “This way, if you would, m’lord.”

I strode in with more confidence than I actually felt, following the woman to my assigned seat. I was deposited right next to Sera, who was already seated.

We were, it seemed, entering in order of status, lowest to highest. I was the highest of my immediate group, but lower than Elora, who still had an empty chair set aside for her at the table.

There were other empty chairs next to hers, too, for Emeralds that were absent. I knew without looking that if I read the card to her right, it would have the words “Derek Hartigan” on it.

It hurt too much to think about.

I took a breath, looking around. Mary and Rose had seating cards near us, but they wouldn’t be attending this event. Mary was still in recovery. Rose was on another shift watching over her. I’d be checking on Mary myself soon.

The names continued, some with passing familiarity. I’d met some of them in my youth, back when Mother and Father still had both hosted and attended parties with other nobles. We’d never been particularly high in status. I wondered if I’d see Cecily’s sister or parents — they weren’t Emeralds, as far as I was aware, but they had enough status that they might have a role.

And, of course, there was the whole thing with Yunika still being in contact with Tristan. I had questions about that if she made an appearance.

But while the next person was familiar, it wasn’t Yunika.

“Now announcing Baron William Kent, Baron of Kentshire and the surrounds.”

Mara visibly tensed, almost standing up. Sera reached over and grabbed Mara’s good hand immediately, giving it a squeeze.

“He’s not at our table. I checked. Not an Emerald, either. Just here as part of an entourage.”

That didn’t do much to help her tension.

I asked a foolish question. “Rupert isn’t here, is he?”

“Not that I’m aware of,” Sera said. “His father is angling for a council seat back at home, and given the number or recent vacancies, he might manage to get one. Don’t overthink it, though. He’s a small man and a small factor in all this. Not worth thinking about.”

“Sweet of you to say, but I still have to think ‘bout if he’s worth punchin’.”

Sera squeezed Mara’s hand tighter. “The answer is ‘yes’, Mara, but the place isn’t here.”

“You guys want some drinks? Think we’ll be sitting here for a while, with all the announcements,” Patrick offered, clearly trying to ease the tension.

“Sure, let’s go.” I stood up.

“Please, let a retainer do some retaining. Or whatever the word is for that. Let me take your orders.”

I rolled my eyes. “You’re the one with a vote. You might be the most important of us today. Surprised they already have you in here.”

“Complicated structure,” Sera explained, “but proxies aren’t considered the same as actual Emeralds in the greeting structure. There’s a point system—”

I leaned closer, interested. Sera laughed.

“Of course that’s what would get you engaged in this. I’ll see if Len can show you point values later. For now, drinks?”

“I’ll take an orange juice,” I told Patrick.

Sera and Mara got alcohol. I suspected they both would need it. When they eventually returned to the table, Sera had another young woman with her. It took me a minute to place her.

“Susan the Spectre?” I blinked.

“I’d say ‘in the flesh’, but you know, I’m still technically ghost.” She spun around a little.

I stared at her. She looked completely solid.

Seemingly noticing my attention, Susan lifted her cup. “Watch this!” Susan took a drink.

Nothing unusual happened. She just…drank the liquid.

“Usually it falls right out!” she told me. “I still can’t taste it, but it’s a big improvement.”

I glanced at Sera. “How’d you manage that?”

“You remember that talk we had ages ago where I talked to you about imbuing a summon with mana of other types to change their properties?”

“Like a fire ogre?” I asked, frowning. “Making a ghost fully corporeal seems like a step beyond that.”

“It is,” she said. “But I’m a lot better than a Quartz-level Summoner now. Anyway, Susan, go mingle and have fun. I’ll probably have more specific orders later.”

“You got it, boss.” Susan gave Sera some kind of weird salute, then vanished into the crowd.

More names were announced, some familiar, some strange. Until finally, after what felt like hours, we reached some of the ones I’d been bracing for.

“Now announcing Elora Theas, Heiress of House Theas, Emerald Summoner, Council Member of Valia, and Sacred Summoner of Suzaku.”

Applause followed, just as it had for many of the Emeralds that had preceded her. We stood to await her at our table, then after she seated herself, she gestured for us to sit back down.

She was the last of the Valian delegation to enter. After that, Caelford followed in the sequence, with Farren and Clarent coming in toward the end of that sequence.

Most of Edria came after that, but with notable omissions — neither Hannah nor the emperor were announced.

Were they absent, or was delaying their announcement some sort of strategic or political statement? I wasn’t sure.

Either way, when the Edrian delegation concluded, the final group was announced. The Dalenos delegation.

I watched as numerous people that I had no idea about were announced, including dozens of Emeralds. Too many Emeralds. If we faced them on the battlefield…Maybe she was right about our odds. My hands tightened as I heard her name.

“Now announcing the entrance of Laura Lyran, Head of House Lyran, Emerald Swordmaster and Elementalist, Survival Match Champion, Middle-Marked of the Tortoise Spire, and newest member of the Dalenos Six.”

I stood and watched my mother enter the room. She didn’t follow a guide to her seat — she waited near the door.

The rest of the Dalenos Six followed shortly thereafter. Only four members had been present earlier in the gathering, but a full set of six were announced, along with their attendants.

This was a show of force. And as they entered the room, I saw each and every one of them turn to look straight at me.

***I didn’t physically recognize most of the Dalenos Six, but I knew many of them by reputation. With Dalenos’ theocratic structure, they didn’t have a conventional senate or similar government structure. Instead, the priesthood held absolute authority.

The Dalenos Six represented that authority in a physical way, with the legendary group representing a significant portion of the priesthood’s might. They weren’t necessarily the strongest combatants in the nation, although every member likely ranked highly among them. Instead, they represented a combination of different types of power — religious, military, and political.

The threat of running afoul the Dalenos Six wasn’t purely that they’d wipe you off the planet with sheer magical might, even if they could do that. It was more that they didn’t have to — a few words from them in theright places and you could be executed for heresy or simply disappear in the middle of the night without explanation.

Naturally, I wasn’t especially happy when I saw them looking in my direction. I took a single deep breath and braced myself, but fortunately, someone else attracted their attention. Their greeter had whispered something to one of the members of the group, who had snapped her fingers and gestured for them to all follow. My mother’s eyes lingered on me while the others turned away, a warning in her gaze.

“That was intense,” Patrick said. “What was with them all staring this way?”

“It’s what Corin represents, dear,” Elora explained. “He’s been personally marked by Katashi. He is, in many respects, the greatest threat to one of their forms of authority here.”

“But they’re going to their table now,” Patrick said, “so we’re in the clear, right?”

Elora gave him the kind of smile that sent a chill down my spine. “No, dear. We’re just later on the dance card.”

I continued to watch the Dalenos Six, wondering what else might have attracted their attention. They’d followed their greeter to their table, and now they were gathered around Takeshi Tetsurin, the swordsman who had fought Mary in the Emerald Trials.

They grilling him because he lost? No, that’s not important enough to draw the entire group. Maybe something to do with his father? Is he one of the ones in that group?The whole group had been introduced at the door, but I’d been kind of distracted and hadn’t caught all the names. “Is Takeshi Kurita over there? I didn’t hear his name called.”

“Ah, so you’ve noted the weight of his absence as well.” Elora dipped her head to me in a sign of respect. I hadn’t exactly noticed what she’d attributed to me, but I wasn’t going to dispute the extra points I’d apparently earned. “One wonders what could keep him away from such a gathering. He’s one of the strongest Emeralds they have, both physically and politically, given his ties to the archduke.”

“Of course,” I said, as if I’d already known all that, “and if his son was challenging for Emerald himself, that implies Tetsurin doesn’t hold his father’s proxy vote. Which means he either planned to be here, or he handedoff his vote to someone else — someone outside of the Dalenos Six, given that they seem to be blindsided by this.”

“Ambushed?” Sera asked. She pulled a map out of a bag at her side, unfolding it on the table, and then drew a line with her finger between Lake Selden and the tower. “It’s a fairly short distance between Dalenos territory and this spot. They have the easiest time getting here.”

“But with their armies marching, resources may have been taken away from specific cities, creating vulnerabilities,” Mara mused. “Do we have people counterattacking right now?”

Elora lifted her glass and took a sip, then shook her head. “That’s not the sort of thing we speculate about in public, my dear.”

“Right. Course not.” Mara took a look at the map again, frowning. “Suppose we’ll probably find out later.”

“Indeed. For now, I’ll need to look into a few things.” Elora stood up. “Do behave yourselves, children.”

As she left the table, we continued to study the map quietly for a time, exchanging whispered theories. After that, Sera excused herself to mingle with other tables. Patrick and Mara left soon thereafter, off to talk to Lars about something.

That left me all alone, at least briefly. But, looking around, I wasn’t the only one in that position. Eventually, I steeled myself and stood for a talk of my own.

***I approached a distant figure. The only one at the gathering who looked even less comfortable than I did.

The master of the tower himself, Warren Constantine.

I approached him, catching the direction of his gaze. The target was obvious enough. He was staring at Anabelle Farren, his one-time employer. If she knew, she was at least acting oblivious, chatting amiably with her stoic bodyguard.

“You okay?” I asked him.

“Hm?” He startled slightly, then turned to me, seeming to refocus. “Ah.

Corin. I…hm. That’s a complicated question, isn’t it?”

“Don’t I know it.” I gave him a half-smile. “In the general scheme of life, it’s complicated, but right now…you seem a little distracted. I imagine it must be tough to have Farren here, given your feelings about her.”

“I’ve never been much good at concealing these things.” He shook his head. “But there’s nothing for it. I can’t host a political event with specific prerequisites for entry and then disallow someone as prominent as she is, regardless of any reservations I have.”

“I’m…not an expert at running these events, but I’m pretty sure you can exclude people. Obviously there would be political ramifications, but if it would make you more comfortable…”

“Let me rephrase. Yes, obviously I could exclude someone, but if I’m allowed to hold grudges and leave people off the list, it would invite others to push for similar treatment of their old rivals and enemies. We wouldn’t get anywhere. No, for the summit to work, I need to bear with the burden of her presence.”

“That’s mature of you.” I nodded.

“Oh, it is, in theory. In my mind, though, I can’t tell you the number of ideas I’ve run through that are less mature.” He offered me a brief smile. “But I won’t make any moves like that. Both because of the ramifications… and because I can tell that she’s controlling herself, too.”

I raised an eyebrow at that. “What do you mean?”

“You have only seen her on her best behavior, I suspect. The large man there, with the strange aura? He isn’t for her protection, like most people suspect. He could play that role easily enough, should true danger arise — but Farren is a power in herself. She rarely needs any kind of shield from mundane harm. Instead, his true role is much like what dear Len has helped me with for the last few years. He gives her stability…and when she comes too close to the monster she could be, he reins her in, by force if need be. His presence at this event is a testament to her belief that she needs to be restricted. This is wise of her. If she had taken such precautions when we were younger, perhaps we never would have…” He shook his head. “Never mind. That’s personal.”

“You sure? It seems like it’s burdening you.”

“It certainly is, young Cadence, but as many as my problems with her may be, she deserves a degree of discretion. I would need her permission to talk about certain elements of our falling out — personal things that go beyond the mere suspicions of what she could do with attunements. I will reiterate the dangers of working with her in a general sense, which you will obviously ignore. But it would be unfair of me to speak of certain other things. Things she confided with the understanding of privacy. So far as Iknow, she has maintained the same rules in regards to me. I can respect that, even if I do not trust her.”

I nodded in understanding. “Could…I get you to talk to her? Mend things? With everything happening, unity is so important. Even if you have trust issues—”

“No.” He shook his head. “I’m sorry, but no. If I was a younger man, a better man, perhaps I could let go. But I am not ready, and I suspect I’ll be buried long before I could take that step.”

“I could help, if you can’t do it alone.”

He turned to me. “I’m tired, Corin. When you get to my age, there are only so many things you have the mental space for in each and every day. This event? Here? This will cost me. For months, years even, I will feel the burden of it. I know I am pushing beyond my limits, and not in the idyllic sort of way that heroes of legend exceed their boundaries. My mind and body are tearing at the seams. You are kind to offer, young man, but I can bear no further burdens today.”

He took a breath, then shook his head and looked away from me. “But you have made it obvious I am paying entirely too much attention to my old grudges, at least, and I should be helping play the part of the host. Len carries what burdens she can for me, but I still am the master of this place. At least for a little while longer.”

He patted the table where he was sitting, then stood up. “I am going to go do a round of chat with some important and annoying people. You’d be welcome to come along, if you’d like. Maybe you’ll even learn a thing or two.”

“I’d like that.” I nodded, helped the old man stand, and together, we walked and talked to many of the gathered people — other than, of course, from the people we probably needed to talk to the most.

***When I finished my circuit around the room with Warren, I took the time to visit the one person who he’d refused to see.

Farren turned as I approached, blinking at me. “Have you finished the first array already? I’d like to get a deployment test going as soon as possible, before she arrives.”

“I genuinely don’t know what you’re talking about,” I told her.

“Oh.” She paused, wrinkling her nose, and seemed to reset. “What’s our current status?”

“I was thinking about offering you a deal related to a recent invention of mine. It…isn’t an array? I don’t think?”

“Oh. Oh, we’re so far behind! Okay, okay. Uh, the answer is ‘no,’ for now, I think.” She turned to Nakht. He gave her a thumbs-up, but his stoic expression never changed. She turned back to me. “Right. It’s a ‘no.’ For now.”

“I haven’t even told you what I’m working on yet. And, like, you’re obviously doing some kind of precognition, or time stuff, or you’ve just got spies and cold reading going on, but I think you’re going to want to hear about—”

“You can’t manufacture the sigils en-masse until we get you to the right place, which will be soon,” she told me, eyes narrowing. “I mean, soon is a stretch, because in terms of your relative timeframe, it’s complicated, but we’re going to at least discuss the specific deal very soon, and we’ve both got a couple refusals in us, and…” She stood up. “I need a drink. Drink?”

“Sure?”

“Great.”

I got another juice. She slammed some kind of hard alcohol, then laughed, stopped our conversation without continuing it, and went off to dance with a woman in Advanced Armor.

I didn’t bother to follow her.

As strange as she was, I believed her — we’d talk about it later.

And, perhaps more importantly, I had another reason to pause and reconsider my actions.

Len stood up near the entrance, announcing the arrival of two more guests.

“Now announcing Hannah Meiyer, the Imperial Executioner, Master of Four Crystals, and First Consort to the Emperor.”

That…last part was very new, and explained a lot. I heard a murmur of surprise from the crowd before the applause started, then Len silenced everyone with a clap of her own hands as Hannah stopped to stand near the door, extending a hand toward the open doorway.

“And,” Len continued, “for our final guest, I am pleased to announce the coming of Edria Song, Emperor of Edria, Bearer of Six Emerald Attunements, Ruler of Southern Kaldwyn, and Chosen of the Goddess.”

