CHAPTER XIX – PREPARATION

Len went to meet with Mary in the aftermath of the match. I presumed that someone else was going to do the same for the injured Tetsurin, but I wasn’t sure who was handling coordination with other nations, or why Len in particular seemed to be the one escorting people from Valia around. She wasn’t actually Valian, or even from Kaldwyn.

That said, my mild curiosity about the subject wasn’t enough to get me to dig further into political questions when I had other things that were of greater interest.

I waited while Len took Mary to speak to the council, then the pair of them showed up in Len’s lounge. Vermillion trailed after them. They all sat down.

“You handled that one better,” Len said. “Much cleaner fight.”

“We handled that one better.” Mary smiled. “Would have been a lot tougher without Sera’s candidate list to prepare for and Corin’s arrows. I’m still impressed you can make anything with void.”

“I cheated, really, since I got the void sword from the spire. Copying and transferring enchantments is a lot easier than making them in the first place.”

Vermillion shook her head. “I don’t think following standard enchanting practices is cheatin’, Cadence. Everyone copies stuff.”

“…You’re not wrong. Anyway, still couldn’t have made it work if you didn’t have all that weird black metal stuff to enchant. What even is that?”

“Something from back home,” Mary offered.

I folded my arms. “Please, please don’t do the ancient wizard ‘I can’t tell you this irrelevant factoid because it would disrupt the nature of all reality’ thing.”

Mary chuckled. “It’s something my sister gave us before…before we left. She didn’t have time to say much, but it’s supposed to be strong. It’ssomething to do with the Sun Eater.”

“Wait, what?” I practically stood up. “Related to him how?”

“I think it’s a remnant from one of the worlds he destroyed,” Mary said. “I don’t know the details. My sister called it lostite. I’m pretty sure that it’s not the real word for it.”

“Any word used broadly enough is a ‘real’ word for it. Common usage dictates meaning,” Len added helpfully.

I gave her a side-eyed look. “Language aside, do you have any insights?”

“Pass the circlet or one of the arrows over?” Len said.

Mary reached into the seemingly empty quiver on her hip, withdrawing an arrow. I felt fortunate that her quiver could support holding items with void in it — I wasn’t sure if it would be stable, but not everyone was as fearful of storing items in dimensional spaces as I was. Mary’s worked fine. Len turned the arrow over in her hands. “Dominion of knowledge, reveal to me the composition of this material.” Her nostrils flared for a moment	as	she	processed,	looking	vaguely	annoyed.	“Dominion	ofknowledge, reveal to me the dominions this is connected to.”

She blinked, then handed the arrow back to Mary. “Fascinating. I think the story about the Sun Eater might be true.”

“You were doubtin’ Mary before?” Rose leaned forward, looking frustrated and protective.

“You wouldn’t believe how many people say some random knick-knack has something to do with one ancient god or another. In any case, I can’t confirm details about the item’s history from thousands of years ago without powerful memory sorcery, which isn’t my area of strength, but it does have inherent properties related to ruin and shade, so…very plausible that it was built by or for a member of the Sun Eater’s army. Or simply changed by the Sun Eater’s magic, or something related to it.”

I nodded. “Did you get anything analyzing the material itself?”

“It’s primarily an iron alloy. Other common materials as well — carbon, traces of copper. Given the carbon content, it might technically be steel. You’d want to ask a metallurgist. The strange dominion essence comes from small amounts of another material that I’m not familiar with, which would be your ‘lostite’. Or, I suppose, you could call the whole thing ‘lostite’, if you want to refer to an iron alloy containing those specific components by that name.”

“…Right.” I took a breath. “Okay, thanks. Should we be worried about the Sun Eater caring that we have these things?”

Len shook her head. “The Sun Eater has conquered dozens of planets. His armies have, over time, probably used billions of weapons and items. It’s highly unlikely anyone is keeping track of everything they ever used.”

Hearing about the armies using billions of items definitely put the Sun Eater’s threat level on a different scale from what I’d been picturing, which was already bad enough.

“Gettin’ a bit distracted. Congrats are in order, Mary,” Rose offered. “Oh, sure.” She smiled. “Thank you. I just did my best.”

“You did well,” Len said. “But your third match will be the hardest yet.

Do you have more materials for Corin to enchant?”

“Think we’ve played out the void weapon bit,” Rose interjected. “They’ll have a counter for that next. Might be best to try something else.”

“If you have other raw materials…I have a few ideas.”

***Mary and Rose didn’t have much else for me to work with for enchanting, but Len did. I wasn’t sure how fair it was for one of the residents of the tower to be helping specific candidates, but I supposed she technically was just someone outside of the Four Powers and could do what she wanted.

While we talked, Len retrieved a box, setting it down in front of us. “Some of Warren’s old enchanting supplies he hasn’t had a chance to work with. If Corin happened to be interested in making a few items with those supplies for the tower’s use, Master Constantine would be happy to allow him to loan those items out, and to keep a quarter of what he builds for himself. Or, for friends, if he chooses.”

“Making it look you’re basically just paying Corin for doing some enchanting work?” Rose asked.

“While I don’t have to pretend to be neutral in this, it’s important that Master Constantine does. Since these resources belong to him, simply handing them out wouldn’t be appropriate during a contest like this. There’s some room to claim acceptability in handing out resources since Warren has been a teacher for Corin in the past, but claiming he’s putting Corin to work on enchanting things for the tower and letting him keep some of them makes it much less controversial.”

I nodded. “Fine by me. What’s in the crate?”

Len opened the top. My eyes widened.

“Those are all Grade 3 and 4 Mana Crystals, aren’t they?” I asked.

“I wouldn’t know,” Len smiled. “Just an old box of supplies. Someone want to help me carry some others down here?”

***We spent a while hauling boxes back to the viewing room. I stopped counting at twelve containers — Warren apparently had hoarded or made quite a few crystals during his career.

I was a little sad I couldn’t actually keep the boxes of mana crystals, but having them on-hand helped make enchanting a lot easier. Other boxes contained items for the purposes of enchanting — high-capacity raw materials of several types.

I would have been happy to just sit around and enchant things for Warren for his benefit and practice, if I had the time.

“Would Warren be offended if I make something to help with his, uh… mana overuse issues?” I asked Len.

“Not offended, but he already does have items for that. It doesn’t really matter. He doesn’t trust items made with attunements much more than he trusts attunements themselves.”

I frowned. “I don’t think these have the same problems—”

“Not around the others, Corin. Master Constantine’s fears are personal.” I frowned. “Got it. Sorry. Maybe we can work something out later?”

“Maybe.” She nodded. “I’d like that. For now, let’s focus on what Mary needs.”

“Right.” I took a breath. “When’s the next match?”

“We have a few days. We’re still running the second round of trials for others and some new candidates for the first round that have shown up more recently. There’s been an agreement not to do the third round until the first two rounds have wrapped up, which is normal. In addition, I suspect there will be delays for some specific Emeralds to show up, for each nation to better hand-pick someone to counter each of the people who make it through round two.”

“How exactly is it that they’re picking people for us to fight against?” Mary asked. “Feels a little strange.”

“For the first round, for each candidate, someone proposes one or more candidates for Summoners or Conjurers to summon monsters to counter a candidate. There’s a voting for each proposal which is seconded, whichalmost all of them get. Nations tend to do back-room deals ahead of time to get counters chosen and voted for. In the second round, the first candidate is selected based on when they completed round one. Then, a council member nominates an opponent, and we have voting, similar to the previous rounds.”

“…Meanin’ that Corin was at a disadvantage for goin’ first,” Rose said with a frown.

“Yes, but it was a gamble to get him in there before stronger opponents were available. That gamble failed, but it wasn’t a bad strategy, based on past precedent — just one that didn’t work out.”

I nodded. “Okay. So, for the third round, can we, I don’t know, do some of our own deals with other nations to vote against the candidates that we don’t want Mary to fight?”

“Your sister is already working on that,” Len explained. “But it’s not likely to work.”

“Why?” I asked.

“Dalenos brought the largest group of Emeralds this year, and they’re voting as a bloc, and compensating others for voting with them.”

“Isn’t that the type of thing that would make someone look bad if they accept?” Mary asked. “Like, going against their nation’s interests?”

“The compensation isn’t always — or even usually — financial. It’ll be things like, ‘Dalenos will give this concession in voting to Edria, or this resource to Caelford, in exchange for a vote in favor of this candidate to fight against Valia getting more votes’. And, of course, they do the same thing with Valian representatives to cut off the number of votes from Caelford and Edria. Frankly, Valia does the same thing. Everyone does.”

Rose frowned. “Feels a little bad, doesn’t it?”

“That’s politics.” Len shrugged. “And it helps Dalenos that most people are convinced that they’ll win, even in Valia.”

I took a deep breath, hearing that. “…Because they have a visage’s support, and we don’t?”

“That’s the main factor, but there are other things in play.”

I spent a little longer going over Sera’s list of likely combatants with Mary and Rose, but given that the third match could be any existing Emerald, it was a much longer list than before. Any of the Dalenos Six were likely, including the father of the man that Mary had just defeated, if he decided to show up at some point. If he took his son’s defeat personally, hemight push for a match of his own for the third round, but we all agreed it wasn’t likely. Too predictable.

They’d probably go for someone they felt could counter both a potentially summoned Vermillion Rose and the presence of void mana items, as well as someone who could counter Mary’s own core skill set.

That led us to a single most likely candidate — Hikaru Hisashi, an Emerald-level Abjurer believed to have a second attunement of some kind.

She was, in essence, someone with Mary’s core skillset and years of additional experience.

At least on the surface. We still weren’t sure if the Dalenos faction realized they were dealing with an essence sorcerer, rather than just a standard attuned. Even if they hadn’t, though, we were in agreement that Mary’s combined and compounded banishment powers still wouldn’t be enough to counter an Emerald — especially if that Emerald had a second attunement or something like a crystal mark of her own.

“Let’s not get too deep into speculating about who she might fight right now — there are too many variables. Can you work with the items you have available here?”

“Definitely,” I said. “Can I take these upstairs to my room?”

“We can do better than that,” Len said. “How would you like to see Master Constantine’s workshop?”

***I spent the next few hours working in Warren’s old workshop, trying to figure out the best items for Mary.

Warren’s workshop was about what you’d expect from an Enchanter, complete with a personal organization system that was completely opaque to anyone other than himself. He’d apparently alphabetized the various material components, but using some kind of dead language that not even Len could read or understand. So, I just kind of…drifted through everything, figuring out what was usable, what was useful, and what I couldn’t even identify.

In the end, I settled on building some items to boost Mary’s own abilities first, then generic items that would be usable by anyone in a duel, and finally, items for countering other Abjurers.

Those would roughly be split across a three-day period, or at least that was the plan.

On the first day, I made two items for Mary. The first was a classic bracer, since Mary typically wore archer-style wristguards, in spite of the fact that she didn’t actually have to worry about a bowstring hitting her arm when firing a spirit bow. The bracer itself was some type of leather, which didn’t have a material capacity capable of holding much, but it had three large gemstones embedded across the surface. I etched and enchanted that, bringing Mary herself up to help.

I didn’t have a banishment mana battery, so I needed someone who had the mana type to make banishment enchantments.

The functionality of the bracer was simple — it stored banishment mana like a battery, designed to automatically feed more power into banishment spells the wearer was casting. Functionally, it was very similar to some of the first items I’d made for Patrick and Mara all the way back before our mid-terms in the first year of Lorian Heights, just designed for an Abjurer.

Mary helped me charge a single capacity rune on the first gem with the majority of her mana she had available, then we waited for her to recover her mana and added a recharge rune of the same level. Then, after more rest, a much lower mana cost function rune to incrementally draw mana from the gem’s storage.

Simple. Then, I let her rest, let the gem recharge to full capacity, and began to power the next identical gemstone using the first, much like I built secondary batteries with a first battery.

There were several limits to using batteries to build other batteries and similar things.

First, material capacities. I’d gotten close to the material limits on the things I was using for batteries already. Fortunately, these items Warren provided were designed for Citrine-level Enchanters — probably his old level, before he decided to destroy his attunements — and they had capacity to spare.

Second, it did cost me mana just to move an enchantment from place to place. I couldn’t do that indefinitely, and the larger an enchantment’s power, the more mana it cost me to move.

Third, enchantment rune stability. This was generally what stopped most enchanters from, say, taking two mana batteries to make a larger one, like Cecily and I had been able to. Enchantment runes needed to be charged completely within a set time frame or they’d simply fall apart. This meant that, for an average Carnelian-level Enchanter, taking two 360-manaSunstone-level batteries to charge a 720-mana battery might not be possible before the enchantment collapsed. My transference compounding from two attunements made me vastly better than a standard Enchanter at this specific issue, but I’d still hit limits if I tried to, say, combine several batteries into one, or basically anything beyond Citrine-size.

Fourth, runes. Even if I could deal with the other problems, I needed to know the runes for every increment of mana capacity, recharge, and function that I wanted to build into something. It was generally pretty easy for me to find a “standard” rune size for any given level — 60 for Carnelian, 360 for Sunstone, etc. — but something like a 720-mana rune was much harder to come by and I couldn’t always correctly intuit what it would look like. So, this required time and study, especially for obscure mana types like banishment.

Fifth, arguably the greatest issue — efficiency. Moving mana from place-to-place involved some mana loss. Having two attunements with transference mana helped with this as well, as did mana shaping practice, but I still wasn’t one hundred percent efficient. That meant, for example, that if I was moving 360 banishment mana from one of the gems to charge another enchantment, and I was losing 10% of that, I had to pull that 36 mana from somewhere. This could be by spending my own mana, if I had access to that mana type, or from a secondary battery, a mana crystal, or something else.

In this case, we were in a high enough mana saturation location that I was simply letting the initial item recharge to about fifteen percent — which took about nine minutes — while manually focusing on keeping the partially charged rune stable. There would be a bit of mana dissipation during that time, as well as more mana loss from transferring the extra fifteen percent, but the overall loss was small enough that the extra five percent made up for it, allowing me to charge the rune.

That strategy wouldn’t have worked in a location with lower mana saturation, since the item wouldn’t have recharged fast enough. Similarly, it would be much harder with higher-level enchantments, since I was less mana-efficient when moving them. If I hit a point where I was at fifteen percent or higher mana loss in the initial transfer, the rune would generally destabilize before I could complete it.

All in all, that meant that I couldn’t, say, take twelve of Warren’s enchantment-ready items and make an Emerald-level banishment itemthrough charging enchantments with other enchantments. Similarly, I couldn’t easily work my way up to Emerald-level batteries from Sunstone- level ones, even if I had all the materials.

With all of these issues taken into account, what I made for the bracer involved three 360-mana-capacity runes — one on each gem — and functions to add about a tenth of the power of each, or 108 extra mana, any time she cast a banishment spell. That basically added mid-Sunstone-level extra power to ten spells she’d cast. Still nothing compared to an Emerald’s power, but with all of Mary’s own compounding banishment, she was probably in the high Sunstone to low Citrine-level range of power output. With this, she should be comfortably outputting Citrine-level power for those ten spells.

Not enough to put her on even ground, but closer.

After that, I put some other enchantments on the gems — anti- tampering and anti-interference. I didn’t want her opponent trying to turn her item against her, nor did I want the gems to make each other explode. The latter was unlikely, since they were the same mana type and near- identical, which caused less interference than dissimilar enchantments, but I always liked to avoid hand-exploding incidents when I could — especially for other people.

After that, I worked on some enchantments for her robes. They were made of some kind of Danian-native material with a high mana capacity, similar to the metalweave silk that was used for Valia’s famous dueling tunics. I could work with that.

Mary physically stitched the runes in a metallic thread that Warren had in his supplies, since stitching wasn’t my area of expertise. Then, I charged the runes with a variety of defensive functions, most notably against banishment and light magic. If she was going up against someone with powers similar to her own, specialized defenses for that purpose would go a long way.

After that, we were both too exhausted for the day to continue. We went to get food. I took a break to read, and during that break, I learned that I wasn’t the only one in my group who had been busy.

***I was resting and thinking in our private room when Mara returned, looking the most intense that I’d seen her since…well, before the fight with Saffron, really.

I sat up in bed as she entered, pushing my book aside — I hadn’t really been reading it, anyway — and gave her a quizzical look.

“Busy?” she asked.

“Not really. What’s going on?”

She waved me over, and I extracted myself from bed as she went over to one of the room’s tables. She unslung her pack from her back, opened it, and carefully removed something. Then, as I approached, she unfolded it across the table.

I frowned. “A map of the Unclaimed Lands?” I paused, looking closer. There were dozens of pins stuck in the map in different spots with color- coded heads. “Wait, are these…?”

“Shrine locations,” she explained. “Or, probable ones, at least. Some of my sources were more reliable than others. A few are well-traveled and documented, but others — especially the umbral-aligned ones — tend to be tougher to find reliable sources about. Including the one that I wanted to find.”

She put a finger on the map.

“The shade shrine, I’m guessing?” I leaned in closer. “But that tip isn’t a color for umbral mana, so…wait. Does red mean…?”

“Edrian controlled. I didn’t have a good enough variety of pins to do full flag colors, so I simplified a bit.” Mara turned to me. “Want to go?”

I blinked. “Uh, probably? I, uh, don’t actually get a vote at this point, but…”

“If you need to stay to support Patrick, I understand,” she said in a tone that sounded like she did understand, but that she’d be disappointed.

“No, no. I mean, I do want to support Patrick, of course, but Sera is much better at this political business. I’m helping more with Mary and Vermillion at this point, to be honest…and I think I’ve about maximized my utility there. I do want to be around for certain events,” I said, hesitantly. “But we might have some time before that plays out. It’s more just the whole, uh, controlled by our historical military rivals thing?”

“That’s, uh…good news and bad news?” Mara looked a little flustered. “Just lay it out.”

“I talked to Hannah Meiyer. She was, uh, receptive, since you know, she’d lost her own hand at one point, and she agreed that without the kind of help that she got right away, the shade shrine would have been a good solution. She…seemed nice. Nicer than I expected.”

I nodded. “And she has the leverage to get you in?”

“To get us in. It’s a two-person shrine. Fits the shade theme. Have to solve two things at once. There are workarounds, like summons, but for most people, it’s for pairs.”

“Makes sense. What’s the problem?”

“I…told her who I was planning to bring. And she knew who I was, and who you were, and…she wants us to do someone a favor in exchange.”

I felt my stomach lurch. “…And by someone, you mean the Emperor of Edria.”

She gave me a terse nod. “Uh, yep.”

“That’s…we’d be completely under their power, meeting her there. Not that we’re that much safer here, but…”

“She agreed that we could use our own transportation, at least, meaning Elora could bring us to the site, and come back to pick us up if we send a message, but it’s an Edrian military facility, and they couldn’t stay there. We also wouldn’t be expected to do the favor while we’re there — the emperor won’t be present at the site. We’d be meeting her here, later. Still… an open-ended favor to the leader of a nation is a cost.”

“…Yeah, that’s bad,” I agreed. We paused briefly.

“I could say no,” she said hesitantly, after a while.

“No,” I said. “Don’t do that. But we’re not going to just take this on their terms, either.”

“You think we have room to negotiate?” Mara asked.

“I have no idea, honestly…but I’m getting better at realizing that I don’t have to be. We have someone else for that.”

***Shortly later, we sat in a circular room that had been set up for private dining. It was built for dozens, but at the moment, there were only a few people sitting at the center of the room.

“And so you see,” Sera tipped her cup of tea, taking a brief sip, “given that Len Hastings is politically neutral, and a near-perfect magical copy of one of Keras’ close allies, I think your emperor would enjoy meeting her. Allowing her to escort Miss Callahan to the shrine would help provide teleportation redundancy in the event of an emergency, which could be useful to your forces as well. And, given her role in this gathering as awhole, she’d be an excellent third party to adjudicate any specific ‘favors’ that are to be exchanged.”

Hannah’s eyes narrowed. “Your whole family is aiming to cause me as much trouble as possible, aren’t you?”

“Well, you know what they say about Cadences and Edria.” Sera gave her a sly look.

Hannah sighed loudly. “Fine.” She gestured at a table cluttered with figurines in front of them. “But the next time we play a game, we’re using Edrian rules, and none of your reshing House Hartigan army nonsense.”

“Oh, I love the Edrian variants. Especially Xiao Ren’s Castle variant.” Hannah glowered at her. “No one wins when you play Xiao Ren’sCastle.”

“Exactly! Just like real warfare.” Sera smiled. “Just a matter of who quits first and who has to deal with cleaning up the board.”

“Ugh. Goddess save me, you’re worse than the prince.” Hannah threw her hands up. “Fine. Your Len can chaperone your brother and his friend to the base and for the meeting. Don’t blame me if she doesn’t like the emperor’s questions.”

“I’m very certain that Len would love to talk to a fellow Keras fan, especially one in such a high position.”

I think Hannah’s eye actually twitched. Like, really, truly twitched. “I’m not sure fan is the word I’d use.”

“I’m sure there’s something far more charming and eloquent in Cas.

Alas, I only took two years of it, and my vocabulary is lacking, so…” “That’s not what…you know what, it’s really obvious that you know,and that you’re playing with me, and I’m just going to let this one go.” Hannah stood up. “I genuinely wasn’t planning anything nefarious for your brother, you know.” She gave me a look when she said that.

I put my hands up in a gesture of surrender.

“You might not have,” Sera said, “but our nations do have a history, and I could see that other people might not be as inclined toward being friendly toward a young visiting Cadence, especially during a time of political and military turmoil. So, please allow us this little bit of comfort.”

“I get it, I get it.” Hannah set her tea cup down. “This is really good.” “I’d hoped it would be. It’s your favorite.” Sera smiled.

“…Of course it is.” Hannah shook her head. “Creepy how you people do that.”

“Isn’t it?” Sera gave her a smile. “And more sincerely, Miss Executioner — thank you. You’re doing a favor for a dear friend, and I don’t forget things like that.”

“I imagine you don’t forget much in general,” Hannah grumbled.

“No, I’m afraid I have to record things from time to time. My brother is the one who is developing a near-perfect memory. And I’m certain he’ll remember this was a positive exchange, and that will reflect well in the favor negotiations when they occur.”

That was a rare cue for me to speak up, so I did. “Of course. I’ll remember.”

“Right.” She sighed, pinching the bridge of her nose. “Remember that when you talk to the emperor, please. By not making yourself too interesting.”

“I don’t think I’m that interesting in general,” I explained. “I lost my second round, you know.”

“You lost your second match because they blindsided you with a Muramasa, kid.” Hannah gave me a strangely sympathetic look. “No shame in that. Believe me. I know.”

“You…oh.” I stopped, remembering more about the tournament she’d fought in years before. “Right. Thank you.”

“Yeah, yeah. Gotta get going now, before your sister convinces me to sell the entire base to Valia or something.”

“Is that an option?” Sera asked. “Because, now that you mention it…” Hannah made a very hasty retreat after that.

Sera winked at me. “I make great tea.”

“Her favorite, apparently? You researched that in advance?”

She snorted. “Not a chance. All I did was read her expression.” “…Huh.”

Maybe talking to people like she did was a type of magic, too.

