CHAPTER XXII – SHADES OF THE EARTH

Mara and I advanced, placing our keys in the door and turning them. This led us into another, near-identical safe room before the next set of challenges.

Once there, we rested. There was no urgency to advance in this shrine, so I made sure to recharge our shield sigils. I also reverted my circlet back to its original return function, but kept a secondary “just teleport straight ahead” function copy in there. I didn’t set an activation word for it, so I’d have to use mana to activate it, but that wasn’t any harder for me at this point. I figured that was better than having to avoid using another word in conversation — the more voice activated items I had, the more likely it was I’d accidentally turn one on at some point.

Neither of us was significantly injured. I had some tears in my shirt from where the cockatrice’s talons had grabbed me, and I’d bruised myself a little when I’d fallen on my back, but nothing serious. My shroud and shields had done their work.

In Mara’s case, she’d ended up with a non-combat puzzle challenge, the only physical threat involving dodging rotating stars while she handled some sort of planetary configuration puzzle. I wasn’t sure what that had to do with the concept of shade — sounded more like a constellations magic thing — but I supposed that not every single puzzle would have obvious thematic components. Even the challenge I’d faced didn’t seem overtly shade-like, aside from the darkness.

Transforming your body is kind of a shade thing, I guess, and a gigantic cockatrice turning you to stone might count. Probably interacts with the shade if it gets far enough to be…set in stone?Ugh, I’m making puns in my own mind. Maybe I’m more hurt than I realized.

We talked, hydrated, then went to our respective doors.

“You sure you don’t want to switch?” Mara asked. “I don’t mind doing one of the dark ones.”

“Let’s look ahead first, at least.” I opened my door.

This one was a clearer challenge, or at least it appeared to be. The room was dark, of course, and most of the floor was missing. There were translucent crystalline panels set at ground height — and several other heights — around the room. While I watched, some of the panels vanished.

I frowned, briefly turning on the light from my circlet to look more closely ahead. As my light washed over more of the panels, they seemed to melt away into nothing.

I mumbled a curse, then disabled my circlet. Fortunately, most of the panels seemed to rematerialize a few seconds later…then others appeared, and others vanished.

“Platform puzzle with vanishing and reappearing platforms. I think light makes them vanish. Can’t see the key from the entrance,” I explained.

“Mine looks like a racetrack with several monsters already in starting positions,” Mara explained, and I could hear obvious eagerness in her voice.

I laughed. “That sounds like the kind of challenge Keras would love.” “…Think I’d like it, too,” she admitted.

I thought I was well-suited to a race — even better than Mara, really. Haste was one of my main areas of specialization, and now that I’d started configuring my circlet for more teleportation options, I could do something with that, too.

If it was a sprint, I’d probably be the better candidate, from a practical standpoint. But if it was a distance run, Mara could use enhancement mana to keep herself going at high speed much longer than I could, especially while I was unable to safely use one of my attunements and my transcendence mana. I was running at about half my normal effective mana, whereas she had all of her own available, and enhancement was better for long-distance challenges in general.

None of that took the monsters into account, but without full descriptions of what they were, I didn’t know who’d be a better match for them.

“Go for it. I’m heading into mine,” I told her.

“See you after the finish line, then.” She gave me a wink.

She ran into her room. I couldn’t see more than that from my position, but I heard what sounded like a distant announcer’s voice.

That does sound kind of fun, I admitted to myself. Maybe I’ll try it later. I turned to my own chamber, but didn’t enter right away. Instead, I watched the timing of the appearing and disappearing pieces, trying tomemorize the initial pattern and find anything unusual.

There. That tile doesn’t vanish.

I had a target. It was more likely a mid-way stopping point than the end, but it would work.

I dropped my anchor just outside the room, just in case I needed to retreat, then took a running leap toward the first platform — or, rather, where it would be as I descended from the apex of my jump.

I hit the tile as it appeared, then jumped again immediately, wheeling my hands for balance. The disappearing panels were slicker than I expected, like a tile floor that had just been mopped. I barely managed to keep myself from sliding off.

I made it three more tiles before I heard a whistling in the air. I reached out instinctively and caught an arrow a fraction of a second before it pierced my chest.

Phew. That was—The tile beneath me vanished ahead of schedule. I was nothing if not prepared.

Jump.

A surge of essence blasted me forward and up. My feet clipped the next tile just as it disappeared. I used a few more Jumps in rapid succession, depleting my ring’s energy and then using my own mana, before I finally landed about three platforms ahead of where I’d been planning to be.

I didn’t have time to consider why the pattern had changed. Not normally, at least.

Accelerated Computation.

I was still leery about abusing mental magic of any kind, but at this moment, analyzing the situation was too important.

The world around me didn’t flow in slow motion with Accelerated Computation, but my thoughts flew faster than the bolt I was now able to perceive flashing across the darkness.

Estimated trajectory…impact in…I blasted the bolt out of the air with a burst of transference, watching the tiles around me, rapidly noting that different ones were visible than I’d expected at this stage.

Either I changed the pattern, or it changes on its own after a certain time. I didn’t observe it from very long in the doorway — it could be natural. But if I caused it…Another part of my mind processed that my tile was about to vanish. I jumped forward, landing on the next.

It’ll be dangerous to advance if the pattern keeps shifting. Or, at a minimum, mana intensive. I’ve only spent about 18 mana so far in this room, but it looks like it goes on a long way, and if we account for the mana in my ring—No, wait. I’m overthinking this as usual. I have batteries.

I jumped again as the tile faded beneath me, then pulled a transference battery out and held it in my hand as I jumped to the next tile. Then, with a thin strand of mana, I recharged my ring.

With that recharged and the battery still in hand, I used a strategy that noted swordmaster Keras Selyrian would be proud of —I dismissed Accelerated Computation, ignored the intended solution entirely, and blasted myself across the room without any regard to the intended pattern.

That worked right up until I hit the invisible wall.

My shrouds cushioned the impact, but since I’d caused it myself, they weren’t as effective.

I winced at the impact, falling several feet before I blasted myself backward to land on a tile, then scanned until I found the single panel that had remained in place without ever vanishing. I blasted myself over to it with more transference and heard a click as I landed.

The air shimmered. A massive cube appeared in the sky ahead. It looked solid, but I made a guess that one of the sides of the cube on the opposite side from my vantage point would be open and hold the key. I heard a ticking sound, too, like a countdown timer.

Several new platforms appeared, forming a new path straight from the stable platform to the box.

Okay, the wall I hit was the area boundary, and I’m supposed to jump across these before the time is up. That seems simple—The cube began to float up and down, and simultaneously several razor- sharp spinning blades appeared in the air around it, swaying back and forth. The circular blades were huge, larger than the platforms, and looked like they had razor sharp edges. Most were strictly horizontal, paralleling the platforms, but there were some vertical ones for variety.

Right, ancient autonomous circular saws. That seems like a thing this dungeon should have.

I sighed heavily, braced, and watched the pattern again while I recharged my ring. After about a minute, the cube vanished alongside the platforms and spinning blades. The ticking stopped.

I nodded to myself, then hopped. I heard a click, then the cube and its compatriots reappeared.

Okay, so this tile starts a timer, and it can be reset after the timer expires. Simple enough. I have about a minute to make it to the goal, which is presumably the cube.

Nothing seems to be physically stopping me from using the ring or my mana to jump ahead faster, but…Detect Aura.

I saw glimmering fields in the air now. Subtle ones — the invisible wall, and several similar fields around where the platforms floated.

More area boundaries, effectively. Things that would punish me from, say, getting to a platform just beneath the cube and blasting myself straight up. If I tried that, I’d hit an invisible ceiling, then one of the saw blades would likely catch me on the way back down.

Glad Mara didn’t try this with her levitation boots. It’s built to hurt people using that strategy. My Ring of Jumping is weirder, at least, so the danger doesn’t counter it as well. I have more maneuverability than someone who is levitating, but the ring moves me so quickly that I can’t course correct easily, and impacts will hit me hard.

The puzzle expired. Another breath, another reset. I watched the timing. Then, one more reset, and I thought I had the timing and distance down. Accelerated Computation.

Distance between apex of cube and panel, 4.8 meters… A minor change here, an adjustment there…I tapped my foot. The puzzle reset. Now.

I jumped ahead, ducked a saw blade, then jumped again. Three more jumps. I blasted another saw blade out of the way, jumped, then glanced up.

I could see the open side of the cube and the key within. Good.

A flare of mana into my circlet and I teleported straight past the invisible ceiling. I grabbed the key with forty-five seconds left.

“Return.”

I reappeared next to my anchor, key in hand and a grin on my face.

Mara was already standing there, a chunk of her hair missing and three claw marks on her face.

“So, about that race,” Mara said, her hands empty. “I think I need to give it another go.”

By the time she’d finished her next attempt and succeeded, my key had vanished. I grumbled a little bit, but went straight back. It would be easier the second time, now that I knew the trick, right?Except on my second attempt, my short-range teleport to skip the invisible barrier didn’t work. A saw blade nearly cut me in half. Fortunately, the shrine still let me teleport back out of the room.

That time, Mara’s key disappeared while she waited for me to try it again.

Eventually, we sat and rested, then tried it all again.

Jump. Jump. And…My hand snagged the key again.

I didn’t bother teleporting back this time. If the shrine was watching and making changes, there was a chance it would punish me for that.

Instead, I landed on top of the center of a floating saw blade — it was surprisingly sturdy — and used transference to push it all the way back to the entrance.

From there, I hopped back down, key in hand.

Mara had succeeded on that attempt as well. We hastily pushed our keys into the door together, then moved on, and took another much-needed break.

After that, I paused, thought back to my first trip to the transcendence shrine, and the memories of previous people using it.

I’ve been remiss, forgetting the lessons of my teachers.

I went back to the doorway to the platform room, used transference to pull one of the spinning sawblades toward me. Then, I strapped a void emitter to it to turn it off, and shoved it straight into my bag of holding.

Thanks, Kester and Lars, for the inspiration.

You never knew when a giant enchanted circular saw might come in handy.

***Another brief break in the next safe room. More recharging items. Then, it was time for room number three for each of us.

“What’ve you got?” I asked to Mara as we each opened our door.

“Pure white room. White tile floor, white walls. Some glowing crystals in the ceiling to keep it lit, I guess. Think I might see another door toward the back? Seeing that, I get the feeling the entrance door is going to close behind me.”

“Tough to see mine, it’s even darker than the last room. Think there are places to light torches on some of the walls, maybe?” I let my circlet’s light shine into the room just a bit, but it barely helped. I got a better look at one of the unlit torches, at least, but no sign of the challenges themselves. Either we needed something brighter, or I’d be going in practically blind. “Think it’s worth bringing Bright Reflection in here to get a better look?”

“Leanin’ against it. Think trying to make it that bright is a trap.”

“I could try lighting a torch from the entrance, before I walk in?” I asked.

Mara shook her head. “Think these shrines usually respond badly to people trying to complete the rooms from outside, from what I’ve heard.”

I nodded. “Okay. Off we go, then?”

Mara gave me a cheerful wave. “See you soon.”

Stepping into a dark room was familiar at this point. This one, however, was simply too dark for me to function. The complete lack of visibility was too extreme, so I activated the front-facing light enchantment on my circlet once I was inside.

As expected, the darkness in the room was magical in nature and resisted the spell; I could only see reliably a few feet in front of me. There wasn’t much to look at within that short range, save plain black brick floors, unlit torches on a couple nearby walls, and a perfect duplicate of myself.

Oh, it’s this one. How nostalgic.

Unlike the very first copy of myself I’d fought, this shade wasn’t a mass of vaguely humanoid shadows — he looked very much like a flesh-and- blood copy of myself, but with a hint of shadow playing across his whole body, and a slight translucency to his overall appearance. His features were clear and accurate, up to and including the visible barriers from his shield sigils and the glistening ice around the saber he held in his right hand.

Shade-Corin lunged right at me, thrusting his phantasmal copy of Selys- Lyann at my chest. I parried easily, watching as the light radiating from my attunement washed over my duplicate, causing his shadowy body to hiss and smoke even from brief exposure.

The shade darted back into the shadows for obvious reasons, and I wasted no time spinning in his direction and calling a bolt of light with my other hand to hurl it straight at where he’d retreated.

I hadn’t expected to obliterate him in a single strike, but if I’m being honest, I wasn’t expecting a shade of Mara to punch the blast of light out of existence, either.

Wait, what?I barely had time to process before she was practically on top of me, sweeping an enhancement-imbued fist directly at my face. I side-stepped it and swept at her gut, hoping the spirit-imbued blade would tear straight through her, but there was no such luck — she brought a knee up immediately, smashing into the flat of my saber and knocking it out of position, then jabbed at my ribs.

I danced backward, only for a blast of transference mana to slam into me from an attacker that was unseen, but still obvious enough for me to process as the force hurled me straight into a wall.

I wasn’t fighting a single shapeshifting shade or a charade this time. I’d handled those types of fights before, both in my Judgment and in the trip to Vanreach. I could have handled another mediocre Corin-copy without a sweat, especially with my elemental advantages and their inability to copy my items completely.

Of course, I shouldn’t have expected a fight in a gateway shrine to be that simple.

Nor should I have expected something as fun and balanced as a simple two-versus-one against weaker copies — that would have been almost fair, after all.

As I cracked into the wall and felt a surge of pain and disorientation on impact, I barely noticed the distortion in front of me — followed by a “click”.

I ducked just before Jin’s shade put a bullet into the wall right where my head had been a moment earlier, then stumbled as a gust of wind picked me up and hurled me straight into a newly manifested wall of ice in a darker section of the room.

The ice cracked when I hit it, but I’d braced myself better for this impact. I didn’t let it stun me this time. I focused on my right hand, activating a stronger light spell to get a better look at the room — and regretted it almost at once.

My own shadow calmly stepped in front of me, ringed by his friends, and without pausing for a moment, said, “Corin Cadence protocols.”

Mara’s shadow jumped in front of him just as I hurled a blast of my own transference mana at him, tearing through my attack with a rapidly manifested blade of enhancement mana. I spun just in time to slice through a blast of lightning from shade-Patrick on my right, which left me open to a rain of icy spikes from shade-Sera, now flying above me and to the left. Fortunately, my shield sigils and shrouds held against the assault, but I couldn’t hope to maintain my defense against a copy of my entire academy team for long.

Even as I poured a hint of mana into my shield sigil to reinforce it briefly against shade-Sera’s assault, shade-Mara was closing into melee range, and shade-Jin — still barely a blur, concealed with a reasonable facsimile of a low-level camouflage spell — was circling behind to get in a shot with his revolver.

Haste.

I shot forward, running at an angle and ducking under Mara’s answering haymaker, then jumped straight over a blast of lightning from shade- Patrick. Shade-Sera answered with a silent variation on Permafrost Cascade raining shards of ice from above me, but I’d expected something similar, and I hurled a rapid burst of transference straight into the ice, pelting her with icy shards from her own attack. I didn’t slow down to see if I’d dealt her any damage — I rushed straight for my main target.

Myself.

Jump.

I activated my ring, sending myself forward and sideways in a burst a moment before a gunshot rang out in the air. As the ring carried me forward, I swung Selys-Lyann horizontally and sent a continuous charge of transference through the hilt and into the blade. The result was a long, trailing variant on my classic sword shockwave, a tidal wave of frozen spirit mana that lashed out at my duplicate. Even if he’d emulated my barriers, being directly hit by an attack of that magnitude would cause serious harm.

So, naturally, he blasted himself straight over it, answering by lifting his own copy of the sword with a wreath of shadows trailing from the blade in an elementally shifted variant on the same technique.

Got you.

I punched outward, sending a burst of focused light right at his chest. Light-based attacks were as fast as they came, almost impossible to dodge at close range, let alone in the air—But my shade’s eyes flashed purple for just an instant, then he was flying off to the side, just barely far enough that my line of light mana breezed harmlessly past him.

A smirk crossed his face.

Was that Accelerated Computation? He can do that? And…was…my face always that punchable?Fortunately, I didn’t have much time to process that before the next barrage of attacks came. The air behind me exploded as shade-Patrick lobbed a fireball, the detonation’s force carrying me straight into one of shade-Mara’s kicks. The force of the blow doubled me over, no-doubt carrying the strength of enhancement mana pumping through her body and tearing through my shrouds. My layered shield sigils dampened the force, as did my scale mail hidden beneath my shirt, but the kick was still enough to stagger me.

I barely managed to raise my left arm in panic as I saw a gun out of the corner of my eye — then there was a crack and I felt the shroud-wrapped bullet pierce into my wrist.

A combination of adrenaline and the pain-dulling effects of my regeneration kept me functional, but even then, being shot was not a pleasant experience. Fortunately, the bullet itself was formed from mana, not a conventional round — and that meant that the light mana that I was still sending out through my body both weakened the bullet before impact and burned the remainder away shortly after it impacted my body.

That, however, still left a bleeding bullet hole in my left wrist.

I hissed and took a step backward, suppressing the urge to scream, then spun and cleaved through another fireball from shade-Patrick. In a fit of anger and panic, I sent an icy slash at him and watched as the projectile cleaved straight through his attempt to counter it with another burst of fire—It might have cleaved right through him if shade-Mara hadn’t jumped in the way, slamming a forearm down on the wave of ice and fracturing it in mid-air.

It was at that point that I realized I had two major problems. One, I’d gone for the wrong target for the start.

In ordinary circumstances, it was a classic strategy to go for support casters first when fighting a group — healers, people with beneficial spells, that sort of thing. In this circumstance, shade-Corin was the defensive support caster of the group, much as I was for my own team.

The problem, of course, was that shade-Corin — much like me — was a lot more than that. With the ability to emulate transference mana, Accelerated Computation, and who knows what else, he was fast and maneuverable…and even if I did hit him, his copies of my equipment would likely provide him with superior defense to anyone aside from Mara.

…And even if I did hurt him, he very likely had a copy of my own regeneration. Maybe even something stronger, given that shade was his primary mana type.

If he’d been alone, or even paired with just Mara, maybe I would have had a chance — but when I’d realized I was fighting my whole team, I should have swapped to focusing on someone with softer defenses immediately. The shades of Patrick or Sera were the most likely targets, especially if their shades reflected having injuries like the real ones did.

But that brought me to the second realization —Even if I’d realized that from the start, I had practically no chance of beating a copy of my entire team on my own.

From the way they were fighting, I suspected that the copies were a bit weaker than the real thing in every respect. Maybe a quarter slower, weaker, and less durable, and an even greater loss in efficacy in terms of their magical item abilities.

That absolutely was not enough to compensate for a five-versus-one situation.

The end result was utterly one-sided. Even as I charged for shade- Patrick in a desperate gamble to help even the odds, a patch of near- invisible ice formed right in front of me, courtesy of shade-Sera. I slid on the ice rather than slipping, but it still threw me off-balance, which allowed shade-Patrick to hurl me to the side with a conjured gust of wind. Again, I slammed into a wall, this time face-first.

I slumped to the ground, allowing a blast of transference from shade- Corin to crack into the wall above me, then groaned and said a word I’d been hoping to avoid:“Return.”

With a brief flash, I found myself standing just outside the room, next to my anchor.

I sat down, breathing deeply, as I reached into my dimensional bag for a healing potion and a set of bandages.

Ow. Ow. Ow.

Being shot was one of my least favorite experiences, even with the regeneration effects from my sigils dulling it. Fortunately, as I inspected the injury and performed some diagnostic spells, it didn’t look like the bullet had punctured anything critical — it had just gone straight through.

I didn’t try to move that hand right away. I’d wait on the healing for a while before that. My fingertips were tingling, and I didn’t know if that was a good sign or not.

Better to just bind it and wait a while.

I was barely done wrapping my wound when an even-more-bloodied Mara appeared at her own teleportation anchor, stumbled backward a step, then spat blood onto the stones.

“Vek. That was impossible.” She dropped onto the floor in front of me, winced, and then carefully set down Bright Reflection against the nearby wall. After that, she reached for the spool of bandages I’d left on the floor. “Don’t think I’ve ever been nearly torn in half before. Wouldn’t recommend it.” She coughed again. “Failed out, obviously. You?”

“Oh, yeah. Failed hard. Five-on-one. Copies of our whole midterms- team. What’d you get?”

“Oh, mine was much more reasonable. Just one Mizuchi.”

“…Oof.” I winced, passing her the half-empty healing potion using my good hand. She winced, grabbing it with her good hand, then liberally slathered it on what now were obviously claw marks. Most of it made it tothe injuries, but she hissed as she spilled some on the floor. “I don’t suppose you could…”

I deliberately didn’t comment on the hesitation in her expression. “Yeah, of course. Might need your help with checking my back, too.”

We spent some time just applying healing potions and bandages to each other’s wounds, then both leaned against the wall to rest, taking deep breaths and processing.

“Don’t think I’ve lost a fight that badly in quite a while,” I started. She raised her right hand. “…A little more recent for me.”

I winced. “Sorry, I didn’t mean—”

“You’re fine. We’re in a deathtrap, Corin. Can’t treat me like porcelain.” I nodded hastily. “Right. Sor…strategy. Strategy, then?”

“Right.” She exhaled another deep breath, wincing and feeling at her ribs. “We could swap rooms.”

“…Not a bad plan. Might be a test to see if we’re willing to change places — that makes a lot of sense for a shade shrine, thematically. But if the rooms remain the same…” I shook my head. “How strong was this Mizuchi?”

“Nowhere near like the original, but I still didn’t stand a chance. If I had to guess, she was probably weaker than even the depowered Mizuchi you fought in the Serpent Spire, but stronger than Satsuki.”

I sucked in a breath. Stronger than Satsuki was still bad news. I wasn’t confident I could beat her in a serious fight, even though she was younger than we were. “…Probably not beating shade Mizuchi myself, either, then. Not easily, at least.” I took a breath, considering. “Did you try light mana?”

“Obviously. She blocked Bright Reflection with her arm.”

“…So much for dispelling shades in a single strike.” I grimaced. “Must be made of a more complex composite. Any signs of damage from the hit, at least?”

“The impact location smoked a little, but nothing that looked serious. If I’m honest, my swing barely made it through her shrouds. Think she had a six-layer shroud like the real one.”

I blinked. “That’s…just not even close to fair.”

“No kidding. Not like your fight sounded much easier. Maybe they’re supposed to be puzzles?”

“Or we’re supposed to lose. Don’t know.” I shook my head. “There were unlit torches on the wall in my room. Might be a classic ‘light all thetorches to win’ thing.”

“Seems too simple.”

I shrugged. “Might be, might not be. My opponents were smart. Like, smart enough to talk smart. If I tried to light the torches, they might just extinguish them.”

“…Yeah, Mizuchi talked, too. She…wasn’t nice.” “You good?”

“Yeah.” Mara nodded. “Can’t let something that light bother me.” She chuckled. “Even if it’s a ‘light the torches’ gimmick for your room, my room was empty. Mizuchi appeared after the door shut, but I’m pretty sure there weren’t any torches on the walls.”

“Makes sense. Maybe you need to…I don’t know, shoot out the lights?”

She seemed to ponder that. “Crystals in the ceiling. Yeah, that’s… plausible, I guess.”

“But if it doesn’t work, you’re stuck fighting Mizuchi in the dark.” I shook my head. “That’s a pretty big risk.”

“Yeah, it is…hm. You got the midterm team. I got Mizuchi. They’re clearly drawing from our memories. How can we use that?”

“…Think about something else when we go in, maybe? Or…maybe we’re supposed to use relevant strategies from those times in our lives?”

“Both plausible, but what would…oh.” She grinned. “We might not be able to handle these on our own, but in the midterm, for the hardest challenges, we didn’t have to.”

“…You broke through the wall between rooms after you fought the dragon.” I thought back to my fight — shade-Corin had splintered one of the walls with a transference blast, which wasn’t a particularly strong attack. Were the interior walls that separated the chambers designed to be weaker? Weak enough that we could combine our efforts?“Right. Maybe if we both went in at the same time, we could burst through the walls and unite, then handle everything together?”

I nodded. “…Maybe. It’d be better than trying to go solo if it worked, but we’d still have six opponents, we’d just be able to utilize strategies more easily. I think we’d probably still lose. Even the Mizuchi copy alone might be too much.”

“Or just, you know, rush through the central hall between the rooms to the next area. Which is presumably the crystal.”

“It could work. Skip the challenges entirely.” I frowned. “Then again, Len did warn us against Keras-style problem solving. What if one of us goes in carrying a teleportation anchor, then the other teleports in? That’s not far off from our bell strategies in the midterms.”

She raised an eyebrow. “Corin. You’re doing a Corin. We don’t need a magic solution if we want to double up. We could just walk in the same door at the same time. It’d be a tight squeeze, but I don’t think the door would close on top of us or anything.”

I blinked. “Huh. I guess we could. Fight one side, then rush to the other before the keys vanish?”

“Could work. How strong were the copies of us?”

“Not full strength, but it’s still two against five. I don’t like the idea of a straight fight against those numbers.”

“I could keep them busy while you light the torches?” she asked. “Maybe. We’ll have to see how they react to Bright Reflection. Mightmake the whole place stronger. Unless you want to sheath the sword?”

She shook her head. “Assuming this is the last challenge, I think it’s the time to use the sword.”

“Agreed.” I nodded. “Okay. We try to light the torches, hope that gets us the key in the first room. If not, we can see if Bright Reflection is able to hurt our shade copies, since they’re presumably much weaker than Mizuchi…which still leaves Mizuchi. How would we—oh.” I laughed. “We might not have to beat her. If we’re dealing with things based on our memories…”

“…All you’d have to do is the same thing you did in the spire. Offensive teleportation. Use the anchor on her, rather on us. Think you can do it?”

“Only one way to find out.”

“…And the only consequence if you fail is an angry serpent close enough to touch.” Mara gave me a sly look. “Could be worse. At least Satuski isn’t here to get jealous.”

“Don’t tempt fate, Mara. My love life is dangerous enough as it is.”

***Mara and I took another hour to rest. We discussed small details about each room — for example, her room was laid out more like a spire interior, and it wasn’t shrouded in complete darkness like mine was. We talked about what we’d seen from each combatant.

There were advantages we had above and beyond our slightly superior capabilities compared to any given copy of one of our group members. Our equipment, for example, was likely superior to any duplicates created by the shrine. Bright Reflection was the clearest example of that, but it would be applicable to any of our other equipment, too. I didn’t think that my counterpart would be willing or able to execute some of the equipment- related tricks that I could.

We discussed these briefly and double checked to make certain we were as prepared as possible. We put up some spells in advance — Haste for me, a general physical enhancement spell for Mara — then opened the door.

A half-dozen different attacks surged through the doorway before it had even finished opening.

We reacted almost immediately, jumping into the room on either side of the door. Neither of us was faster than a bullet, though. Not yet.

Mara was in front of me. This time, she got shot. But unlike me, she had an enhancement-specialized shroud — when Jin’s bullet hit her, it didn’t pierce through. He used the same mana type to wrap around his bullets, which saved her — his bullet glanced off as the same element deflected itself.

None of the other attacks landed. Not on us, anyway.

Sera’s ice hit the wall behind us and began to spread, then somehow fired icicles across the entire room from the area of impact. Even having dived to the sides of the door, we weren’t safe from that.

And I’d never seen that spell before.

I was already holding my fire sword, Scald, with the intention of using it to light the torches, so I had a viable counter available. As soon as icicles shot at me, I slashed them apart with flaming swings.

When Mara attempted the same with Bright Reflection, the ice didn’t shatter or glance aside the way I would have expected — instead, the icicles that hit the blade began to freeze over it and spread.

My eyes widened as I processed what was happening. I started to say something, but another voice, calmer and better prepared, spoke first.

“Corin Cadence Protocols. Marissa Callahan Protocols. Pursue for Round Two.”

My voice.

I lunged, but not at him.

Mara blinked as she saw my sword swinging toward hers — then she understood. We let our swords clash, the flames from Scald briefly surging as I sent a flicker of transference across my blade. Ice melted, and I swung around to blast another surge of flame toward the wall, which was still firing ice spikes at us.

“Get the door!” I told her, but it was too late —The other Mara was charging through, a black-bladed sword in her hand, and a burst of ice was freezing the top of the door closed.

I really shouldn’t have planned around my room resetting after I’d left. Even in Valia, where my profession was nowhere near as popular,people knew not to go against an entire team with an Enchanter and ample prep time. Especially when that Enchanter had even less of a self- preservation instinct than various Corin Cadences usually did.

As if to highlight that fact, Shade Mara hurled a rune-etched cylinder straight at me. I recognized the runes on the surface even at a glance — it was a classic mana battery.

One with the very necessary safety mechanisms, like a capacity rune, taken off.

“Bomb!” I shouted.

My Mara wisely withdrew.

I hurled a blast of transference at the container — and Shade Mara jumped in the path of the blast, her shroud flaring with enhancement to neutralize my attack. The force of my spell still knocked her back, even with the shroud, but that only helped knock her closer to the doorway.

That made it easier for her to jump backward into her room when the cylinder began to leak black energy into the air, and—Accelerated Computation.

I lashed out with a mana thread, calculating the exact trajectory, and connected to it.

Analyze Attunement Composition—I was too slow.

The mana battery cracked…and everything went black.

…Not in a dramatic scene change sort of way. Shade Corin, it seemed, had hit us with a void mana bomb.

As my sight faded, I felt a much more concerning effect. My shields failed. My sword’s flames went out. My ring of jumping felt cool against my finger, utterly inert.

My equipment was stronger than he could make, but as I’d been told numerous times, attacking was easier than defending. Shade Corin had, with a single move, disabled very nearly every item I was wearing.

I couldn’t see, but since the bag at my side hadn’t exploded and I wasn’t showered in falling swords, presumably my storage items had remained stable. That didn’t mean they were actually usable, but they weren’t completely destroyed, either.

They’d be weaker, at a minimum, maybe enough that I wouldn’t be able to reach into them. I wasn’t sure if anything Mara had been carrying survived—At least, not for the half-second before a glowing sword cleaved the darkness out of the air.

“Not nice,” she said, stepping forward, cracking her neck, her blade blazing in her hand. “Kind of a cheap trick, taking out most of our gear like that, Other Corin.”

“He was going to do the same thing!” Shade Corin yelled from somewhere in the dark room ahead of us.

Mara stalked forward. “And how would you know?”

Her counterpart met her with a sword of shadow, blocking the doorway. “Because,” Other Corin shouted, “Jin Dalen is right behind you.”

I heard a click. I didn’t hesitate — I just hurled a blast of transference mana straight into where Shade Jin was standing behind Mara, revolver poised to fire.

She’d blocked his bullet with a shroud earlier, but that wouldn’t have done a thing with Jin being classic Jin and pushing the barrel of his gun right through that shroud to shoot her from the inside.

My blast caught his right arm and sent his aim askew, sending his bullet into the ceiling, rather than Mara. The sound of the gun going off right behind her made Mara jump, understandably, but that gave Shade Mara an opening to charge. Her sword swept down in a cleaving arc, a wave of blackness following behind it.

Mara fumbled her parry, barely maintaining her awkward off-handed grip, but managed a quick kick to send her opponent flying backward.

Fortunately, her opponent wasn’t a much better swordsman than she was. Shade Mara was also missing a hand, and when she tried to swing while flying backward, she missed entirely.

That bought Mara a bit of space, but the doorway was clear now. A blast of lightning flashed through the doorframe. Mara slapped it with Bright Reflection, sending the bolt back toward Shade Patrick, but he simply gestured and caused the bolt to vanish in mid-air.

I charged Jin as he repositioned for another shot at Mara from behind, so he aimed at me instead.

Finger closing around trigger in 0.08 seconds, Accelerated Computation helpfully reported.

That was enough time.

Shroud Burst.

A blast of transference flashed from my shroud just as he fired. It didn’t deflect the bullet entirely, but it ate the layer of enhancement around it and pushed the projectile off-course. It still passed through my shirt, but hit the armor beneath and failed to pierce through the enchanted mail. I hadn’t been able to see it beneath my clothes, but the void bomb hadn’t been strong enough to disable the Citrine-level armored shirt — at least, not after the bomb had to go through two shrouds and two shields to get to it.

It wasn’t as effective at stopping the second bullet, however. Or the third.

I took one bullet to the left arm. The third missed. Firing, even at close range, was hard.

Then I was in melee range and Scald flashed down, glancing off Jin’s own shield sigils.

He grinned that wonderful and horrible grin of his at me, hopping back to aim again. Out of the corner of my eye, I noticed another attack coming— a blast of ice — and hurled my no-longer-flaming sword straight at it, catching Shade Sera’s attack in mid-air.

As Scald fell in a block of ice, I hit a symbol on my sword belt and pressed mana into it.

And, just as I’d hoped, Keras’ gift worked even in the direst of situations.

Selys-Lyann might have been the obvious choice in terms of power, but it wouldn’t change the nature of the fight. With the spreading ice attacks that Sera was throwing, I’d quickly understood what was happening—They were outperforming us on teamwork.

Their Corin had given Selys-Lyann to Sera, and with her existing ice powers, she was nightmarishly effective at using it.

Even as I stopped one blast of ice with my sword’s sacrifice, she was readying another. Mara swept her sword in Shade Sera’s direction, sending a cutting wave of light toward her, but Shade Mara intercepted it. We were making zero progress, and they were wearing us down.

My Selys-Lyann couldn’t reverse a war of attrition. For that, I needed Shroudstealer.

The mana-stealing sword appeared just in front of my hand. Jin’s expression showed a hint of confusion as he saw it, but he still raised his gun to fire again.

Jump.

My ring was still inert, but I was thinking clearer now that I had a plan, and I did what I should have done when he’d first aimed at me — I got out of the way faster than he could move, blasting myself to the side with my own transference mana. Then, as he wheeled to reposition, I cast the same spell again and surged behind him, swinging the sword too quickly for him to respond.

His shields cracked. Mine turned back on.

He jumped backward, managing a single shot, but he hadn’t had time to charge the bullet with his own shroud. It cracked harmlessly off my newly regenerating barriers, then I’d closed in on him.

“Sorry.”

I swept my sword through his barriers and shroud, straight across his chest.

I was surprised by the amount of blood as he dropped. “Jin!”

It was strange hearing my own agonized scream, coming from somewhere else.

It was even stranger to think that I might have actually had such an extreme reaction, after everything Jin and I had been through. After everything he’d done.

I wasn’t sure if I would have reacted the same way. I didn’t know if the copies had memories quite like ours — we hadn’t talked through this in the same way that I’d tried to with the copy of Keras in the transcendence shrine.

But what I did know was that the reaction sounded real. Genuine. And as monstrous as it felt to do so, I could exploit that.

My sword went to the downed Jin’s throat. “Weapons down or he dies.”

The shades hesitated.

And, it turns out that even if shrine copies of people aren’t generally built to have the same self-preservation instincts that the real versions of us do, they don’t have the same limitations toward their feelings for others.

I heard, then saw, a copy of Shroudstealer fall to the floor. Shade Patrick was unarmed. He simply put his hands up.

Shade Sera, holding her copy of Selys-Lyann, hesitated. “What will you do if we surrender?”

“We can very slowly swap positions. You can come get Jin, we’ll get into your room to finish our puzzle. We continue through the shrine, you can leave.”

Shade Corin glanced at Sera. “He’s breathing. I can stabilize him, teleport out, we can reset the shrine…”

“Don’t think we can,” Shade Sera whispered.

Shade Corin’s eyes widened just a little as he seemed to process that. “…Oh.”

He looked at me. I looked back to him.

Shade Corin’s eyes narrowed for a moment. “The exit is in your direction, isn’t it?”

I nodded. His expression shifted, and I could see that he understood the implication.

“I’m going to cast a quick detection spell. Nothing harmful,” Shade Corin said.

I nodded, watching him carefully as his expression sank. “How long have you known?” he asked Shade Sera.

“Not until after he left the room the first time. Gave me a minute to think, try to talk to Seiryu. My memories told me we were in a shrine, but I couldn’t remember how we’d gotten here or why. I couldn’t feel my connection to Seiryu at all.”

“Wait, hold on. You’re saying we’re the fake ones? Could have told the rest of us,” Shade Mara groaned.

“I feel like if the fact that you’re using a shadow sword instead of a light sword didn’t give it away, you might not have been too receptive,” Mara told her counterpart.

“What, no, I…” Shade Mara stared at the sword in her hand. “…Huh. I don’t know how I didn’t see that.”

“Pretty sure we’re designed not to notice things like that, unless someone points it out,” Shade Corin said. “Either way, our friend needs us. I think we can safely surrender at this point, if you’ll let us through?” He put his hands up.

“Yeah, of course.” I lifted my sword from the wounded Jin.

Mara took that moment to take a step back to unblock the doorway, then slumped against the wall.

She had a large cut across her abdomen. I hadn’t seen it happen at all. I ran to her. Shade Corin gave her a look of concern, too.

“When did—”

“She cut me pretty good right after the bomb went off, before I cleared the shadows. Been holding my arm over it so they wouldn’t see that she’d gotten me.”

I kept an eye on the other team as I inspected Mara’s wound. It was… not great.

“This is bad enough that we probably should have teleported out immediately,” I told her. “I don’t think a potion is going to treat this.”

“Couldn’t teleport, Corin. Bomb turned off our stuff. That’s going to mean the circlets, too.”

I frowned at that. “Bright Reflection didn’t shield you from the void?” She shook her head. “Nope. Sword stayed on, but nothing else did.” “Resh. Okay. Hold on.”

I reached into my pouch with my free hand. The bag was functional — I found a healing potion inside.

Then, grudgingly, I set my sword aside to begin to administer it to Mara’s wound.

“It seems,” Shade Sera said, walking close to us with her sword lowered, “we owe you an apology.”

“Don’t stress it, we know what you were made for,” Mara said, wincing. “Hold still,” I insisted, continuing to pour the potion across her abdomen. “And maybe drink the rest of this, I don’t know if just pouring iton the surface is going to heal everything.”

She set her sword aside, taking the offered vial, while I reached into my bag for bandages.

Release Haste. Release Accelerated Computation.

I periodically glanced at the other team as I dressed her wound. Even with a full healing potion, it was still…not great.

I threw a Regeneration spell on top of that, which might have helped, but she wasn’t in fighting shape.

“We should leave,” I told Mara. “You’re in too bad of shape to continue here.”

“Would really rather you don’t,” Shade Sera said to me. I turned to her, blinking. “Why?”

“The whole ‘if you leave, we cease to exist’ thing,” she explained, her tone like she was talking to a five-year-old.

“Not sure that’s avoidable,” I told her. “Unless…”

“I won’t ask you to give up your boon like Keras did for Len,” Shade Sera said. “Not when you and Mara both have good reasons to need your own, my counterpart among them. I do, however, want to make you a deal.”

“A deal?” I asked.

“Corin,” she turned to Shade Corin, “see if you have a key in your bag.

It’s the most likely place for it, I think.”

He found it almost immediately, setting it down. “Well, I suppose that’s another factor in confirming the nature of our existence. Unless we’re in the Spider Spire, or the Shrine of Lies, or something designed to convince us—”

“Let’s not overthink it,” Shade Sera told him. “If we’re the real ones, this deal will still work to our advantage.”

“Go on,” I told her.

“It’s very simple,” she said. “Ask yourself, what would Sera do in this situation?”

I had the answer immediately, then considered. “I’ll make some room in my attunement.”

“Good,” Shade Sera said. “Corin, Mara, help Jin back to our room?”

The shades retreated to their own chamber, leaving the key behind with us. I spent a bit longer talking to Mara, then making attunement adjustments. Then, with an abundance of caution, I reopened the door to the room with the shades of our team.

It was dark inside.

“Hello?” I called out. No response.

No.

My fists clenched as I stepped inside, searching desperately, hoping, but—I’d made a mistake.

I never should have let them leave my sight.

And now, only minutes after having created them, the shade shrine had claimed the lives it had made.

