CHAPTER XX – QUESTS AND QUESTIONS

It took a bit longer to figure out some of the details with Sera, then I was back to visiting Len, this time with as much secrecy as we could muster.

“Lord Cadence, what did you wish to discuss in private?” Len asked after we stepped into the sparring room. I hoped that I wouldn’t need to use it for security too frequently, but I had a feeling I was going to end up in there often as the council continued.

I nodded. “A few things, actually. And Corin is fine.”

“Perhaps in this context, it is.” Her voice had a slight chiding tone to it. “You should be aware, however, that your station is important here. And, as difficult as it might be, you should encourage your cohorts to demonstrate discipline in public spaces and utilize your title properly. Some leeway might be given to your sister, but even allowing that is a statement. By allowing her to call you Corin, you are effectively acknowledging her as your equal in status. That may raise the council’s estimation of her significance…or lower yours.”

I folded my arms. “More likely a bit of both. I might find this uncomfortable, but I’m not entirely new at this.”

“That may be so, but that is notably less true for your retainer and… whatever Miss Callahan is to you. I won’t inquire, in case you have some plan to reveal, but assumptions might be made that if she’s overly familiar she might be your betrothed, or perhaps Sera’s, or—”

“She’s Keras’ other apprentice. We’re training partners.”

“I suppose that would explain a degree of your lack of formality with each other, especially if you were training under his guidance.” Len sighed. “He never was good with titles and propriety.”

“Actually, if you don’t mind, Mara is the main reason I’m here.”

“Oh? I’d assumed you had more magical theory and enchantment resources to ask about.” She raised an eyebrow.

“…I mean, I actually do, and now I feel kind of bad about asking you about so many things in a row, but—”

“Think nothing of it. Just as Keras is your master, he is a dear friend. And, moreover, I’ve come to think of you as students of my own and Warren’s as well. Obviously, not to the same degree — we haven’t had enough time together for that — but Researcher told me a great deal about all of you when she stayed behind for a bit after you left, and I’ve been impressed by what I’ve been told. You’re quite the talent for your age, but more important than that, I believe our values are closely aligned.”

“In regards to the treatment of summoned monsters, you mean? Or Katashi and such?”

“Principally the former, though they are issues that are intertwined in ways that may become clearer to you over time.”

I frowned a little at that, but I thought I could see where she was going. If Len had ethical issues with how summoned monsters were treated, much of that could be traced back to the visages in general, or even Selys herself. I’d read through many of the sub-glyphs involved in a Summoner contract as a part of my Null-Contract Gauntlet research, including the glyphs that were stored on the summon’s side of things…and they were, in brief summary, the type of contract that few sane humans would want to agree to.

Of course, monsters created by the spires wouldn’t have had any choice in the matter. They’d be bound to those terms from birth, or near to it. And that, it seemed, was something Len wanted to change.

“You seem to be getting distracted,” she noted. “Ah, sorry. Happens a lot. Where were we?”

“Well, you’d mentioned Mara was the principal reason for today’s visit.”

“Right, she is,” I started. “And speaking of right…she’s right-handed. Or, at least, she was. That’s a large part of what I wanted to talk to you about. The sword she’s carrying is a replica of Dawnbringer, which Keras and I made together for Patrick. We’ve both been borrowing it from Patrick, which I think has helped her morale a bit, but…after she lost her hand, she’s been in a difficult spot. She is, or was, primarily an unarmed fighter.”

Len pushed the glasses up on her nose. “You’re a resourceful person, an Arbiter, and the lord of your family. And, as much as my lord mightdisapprove, you have clear connections to Farren. You certainly have the means to afford a prosthetic, so you must have a reason you are avoiding the obvious route.”

“She doesn’t want one. She wants a flesh-and-blood hand, or at least as close as she can get.”

“Regenerating a hand is a difficult task. Could the original be reattached?” Len asked.

I shook my head. “It was…in no condition for that. Worse, her spirit and shade are damaged.”

“That complicates things significantly. May I ask how that occurred?”

I exhaled a deep breath, glancing from side-to-side as an additional cursory inspection of the room’s runes, then turned back to Len to speak quietly. “She lost her hand fighting the vae’kes Saffron.”

There was an awkward pause as Len stared at me, her hands quietly opening and closing in the air. Something about that statement had set her off more than I’d expected.

“I…see. I think we’d best have this conversation sitting down.” She snapped her fingers, producing a pair of chairs. “And you should tell me everything.”

I sat down with Len and explained what had happened with Mara and Saffron. She listened patiently, before offering her own perspective.

“…In another life, a different Lydia Hastings had a run-in with a vae’kes not unlike your own. He stole from her as well, and so far as I know, she never fully recovered from when he shattered her leg. This body,” Len gestured to her own, “has disadvantages, but I am fortunate that it is largely formed from essence, and thus, easier to rebuild. Your friend will suffer from the same difficulties that the original Lydia did. Even the most talented spirit mage that I knew was unable to completely fix the damage to my former self…but Aladir was limited to local knowledge. We have the benefits of greater resources and perspective here. Helping your friend will not be easy, but it may be possible.”

“Which approach would you suggest?”

I’d already told her a number of our ideas, without giving away too many specifics that might be considered confidential, like that Elora was Suzaku’s Summoner. I spoke in more general terms, such as consulting a god beast. I also mentioned that we’d made tentative arrangements to visit the shade gateway shrine, if she was amenable to helping with that.

“Do you think one of those options would work?” I asked her. “Completely regenerating her original hand would, in all likelihood,require the help of an entity with access to magic from every single layer of self. This is something that the god beasts or visages might physically be capable of, but I would not anticipate any individual entity having the relevant levels of skill for every single necessary essence type. Even beings with access to massive power tend to specialize. I’m sure you noted that Saffron, for example, was not equally skilled with all of the forms of magic at his disposal. The visages, gateway crystals, and god beasts will be the same way.”

“What about Suzaku? Phoenixes are associated with rebirth.”

“I would concur that Suzaku would be the most likely single entity to possess the relevant powers, but that would not be a guarantee. I’ve spent a considerable amount of time researching resurrection magic, given that it is closely related to my own nature and existence. Every form of resurrection I’m aware of uses one or more of the layers of self as a template for the recreation of the original self. In your friend’s case, the hand is likely damaged on all layers, meaning that using resurrection-style magic would be no different from any other form of advanced healing. It’s possible — even likely — that Suzaku has a more advanced knowledge of healing magic than my own and may be able to do something, but I would urge you to keep your expectations low. Moreover, given the current political climate, I would urge you to consider that calling on favors from a god beast may have a cost that is disproportionately high.”

I understood all of that, but I had to ask for Mara’s sake. “What about something like…if we got her access to shade magic through the shrine… could she use shade magic to copy and mirror her good hand?”

“Possibly, but hands are not exact mirrors of one another. Attempting to make a hand that is exactly symmetrical and mirrored to the opposite hand would not result in full functionality. You might be able to make something from an amalgam of her good hand and the remaining layers of her damaged one, but that’s an extremely complex piece of healing. I wouldn’t advise attempting it yourself.”

“Is it something you could help with?”

Len shook her head. “If I thought I was capable of that, I would have already offered. As a construct from the Spirit Gateway Crystal, I’m quitepowerful with spirit magic, but I do not have the level of anatomical knowledge or layer-perception necessary for an operation of that kind.”

I frowned. “What about the Spirit Gateway Crystal itself? Would they help us, if we went there rather than the shade shrine?”

She shook her head. “The gateway crystals might be able to do most of the work, but not all of it. Not on their own, at least. Some of the layers of self are far enough apart on the essence spectrum that any given crystal is highly unlikely to have significant skill. For example, since spirit mana consists of life and light mana, that crystal has very limited access to things that oppose those essence types. That would include some layers of self, most notably the dream self, which involves shadow essence.”

“…Okay. What about asking one of the crystals to repair some layers, and then using the repaired layers as a baseline to fix the others?”

“That might be hypothetically possible, but I should stress that I am not an expert on healing magic on that scale, and there may be problems I am not capable of anticipating. I would urge you to consult a true expert. Have you spoken to the Transcendence Gateway Crystal?”

I shook my head. “Sera already tried that. The summoned version isn’t capable of it, and even the true crystal isn’t a healing expert. They specialize in improvements — they might be able to make Mara some kind of new hand, but restoring the original as it was wouldn’t be within their skill set.”

“Understandable. Also, I believe that shrine is currently under Dalenos occupation.”

“That’s what Mara’s notes said, too.” I winced. “What about the Spirit Gateway Shrine? Is it still accessible? Mara wasn’t sure.”

“I don’t know either, but given the location, I would expect it to be under Dalenos control as well. It’s something I intend to investigate, but that would require significant military backing. If we successfully take control over the shrine, I’d be happy to bring Miss Callahan there to attempt the trials, but I would advise you that those tests are more dangerous than those at the Transcendence Gateway Shrine, and I would not be able to provide any unfair advantages.”

“I’m sure she wouldn’t want any. That said, if the shrine may be under Dalenos control, that’s not something we can act on immediately. Hm. Any others that might be better bets than shade?”

Len adjusted her glasses, considering. “No, I believe that Mara’s plan is a sound one. Shade is one of the most potent dominions for the purposes of healing and regeneration — it may be a good option for your friend to gain information or direct healing. The shrine itself presents moderate danger, but…with a copy of Dawnbringer…it might be feasible, even with her injuries.”

“That leads me to another awkward question. Given that the shrine is under Edrian control, would you be able to escort us there and watch over us for a bit?” I asked.

Len seemed to consider that, then nodded. “We’d have to time it during a period that the council isn’t in session, like deep in the evening. Get out there, do the tests, and then teleport back the same evening if possible. My understanding is that the shade shrine, much like my own, can be completed in a matter of hours — it should be feasible.”

“You wouldn’t lose sleep doing something like that late at night? Or… since you’re a spirit construct…do you not need sleep?”

She laughed. “If only. No, I need sleep just like anyone else does, but as a dream mage, I have workarounds. Spells to put myself to sleep rapidly and soundly, with improved efficiency. I can cut my necessary sleep for a night down to a few hours. It’s not something I should use on myself repeatedly, but for a single night, it’s not a problem.”

“Huh. Would that work on us?” I thought about the training possibilities of adding a few extra hours to the day, but Len swiftly shook her head.

“Not unless you’re acclimated to dream mana. It’s a higher-level spell, and it works on me the way it does because I’ve practiced it enough to use it safely. You’d have to spend time training with weaker dream magic spells— both casting them yourself, and having them cast on you — for something like my efficient sleep spells to be safe to use in any regular fashion.”

I nodded. “Understood.”

I still had to wonder how long that acclimation would take, and if it would ultimately save me time if I could reduce my sleep burden a few times a week…but it was yet another thing to add to my list of possible tools to employ in the future. And, given that dream magic opposed the types I was studying, it wasn’t a likely strategy for the near future.

“Okay. Thank you,” I continued. “Do you know much about the shrine?”

“A bit.” She pushed up her glasses. “Every shrine has certain unique elements to their challenges — in the case of shade, the core ‘themes’ involve things like reversal and pairs, which often encourages solutions like doing opposite puzzles in two rooms at once. Summoners and similar attunements can handle the place on their own with help from their summoned allies, but most people simply enter with a companion or a team with an even-numbered group size.”

“That’s about what Mara had heard, too. Thank you.”

Len nodded. “Of course. I’m…happy to do whatever I can to help one of Keras’ apprentices. Especially one who was hurt in a way that is all too familiar to me. I wish I could do more.”

“…Actually, there is one more thing I wanted to ask. More along the lines of the magic theory stuff you thought I was here about.” I unbelted Selys-Lyann, offering the sword to her. “This sword has an intelligent spirit. Or…had, at least. He was banished during the fight with Saffron. I’ve been trying to get him back by attempting to emulate a Spirit Art he used, and you saw the exchange with Mary talking about undoing the seal, but…”

Len’s coughed. “You’re…going to need to back up and explain thatfrom the start, too.”

I filled Len in on the background of Selys-Lyann, Thorn, and everything that had happened. Ordinarily, I might have kept something like Thorn’s nature secret from most people, but Len was a spirit based on Keras’ companion from Mythralis — she wouldn’t have the same biases about the Tyrant in Gold that a Kaldwyn-native would.

Rather than looking horrified at the explanation of Thorn’s nature like I expected most people would, she simply looked fascinated. As I finished the explanation, she nodded and adjusted her glasses again. “…You were right to come to me with this. Thorn’s situation is not all that dissimilar from my own.”

I blinked. I hadn’t thought of them as being similar — Thorn was a spirit bound to a sword, after all — but in retrospect, it made sense. Len, too, was born from an amalgam of an original spirit and elements taken from others…specifically, Keras’ memories and perceptions of Lydia Hastings. There certainly were some parallels between her and Thorn from a magic theory standpoint. “Does that mean you can help?”

“Perhaps. Firstly, however, I would strongly advise you to stop attempting to copy spirit arts without proper knowledge of how to use them.

Right now, your form of emulating them using spirit mana is largely safe, if only marginally effective at your goal. If you actually succeed at using a Spirit Art correctly, you are likely to cause yourself significant lasting harm.”

I frowned at that. “Why would succeeding be worse? That’s… unintuitive.”

“How much do you know about spirit arts?”

I shrugged. “One of my classes taught bits and pieces about foreign magic. I’ve also read through what I could find in the books I borrowed from Master Constantine. The basics are pretty simple — Spirit Artists on Artinia create dedications, which are segments of their spirit that are ‘dedicated’ to a specific purpose. That purpose is often highly specialized, but has an underlying mana type associated it. Like, if your dedication is ‘preserve me and heal my wounds’, that might be a regeneration-style dedication that utilizes shade as the underlying mana type. From that, you’d get passive regeneration and a limited ability to use shade-style spirit arts from the dedication. Is that all right?”

“Yes, that’s an accurate understanding, although it’s noteworthy that there are some dedications that have more than one mana type associated with them, or a compound mana type that is outside of the standard twelve prime dominions and forty-eight deep dominions. You hit on the most important element right at the start — dedications. Do you know what happens when you try to use a Spirit Art and don’t have the proper dedication for it?”

I shook my head. “I assume it wouldn’t work.”

“That’s one possibility, but it isn’t the worst case. If you actually structure the Spirit Art perfectly, but don’t have a dedication, it will consume a part of your spirit to execute the art. Permanently.”

“W…wait, permanently?” I sputtered. “Why?”

“The spirit isn’t like our essence structures — or, rather, human essence structures, I should say. It’s not designed to be utilized directly for magic. It’s not just a pool of energy — it’s like half-way between that and a physical body. Spirit arts…they’re like taking a piece of that that body and using it as fuel for an effect. And, much like if you just take off a whole limb of your physical body, if you just use up a bit of your spirit with a Spirit Art, it doesn’t know how to recover. Dedications are designed to solve that problem. You’re familiar with Dianis Points?”

“Sure. They’re the parts of the essence structure that regulate mana in the body. They’re also what attunements are built on top of.”

“A good start. They are also what connects your essence self with your other layers of self, through star veins. It’s also important to understand that the other layers of self contain analogous structures — basically, there are star veins and Dianis Points in each layer, but they have slightly different names and functions. Is that clear?”

“Sure. What’s that have to do with…oh. I think I get it. Are you saying that dedications are effectively like attunements, but for the spirit?”

“Technically, they’re more similar to completed Dianis Points used by essence sorcerers, but…for your purposes, yes, you can see them as being similar to attunements. They serve to regulate the use of that part of the spirit. Most importantly, they create a stronger connection between the parts of the spirit, setting up a method for the spirit to repair itself completely if spirit arts are used. There are several more complex elements to this, but the most important thing to understand is that without a dedication, properly executed spirit arts will just take a chunk of your spirit away. With a dedication of the right type, you can use part of your spirit safely, more like mana.”

“But…If it’s so dangerous to use spirit, why would anyone use that over mana?”

“Well, on Artinia, spirit is the foundation of the local magic style. It’s all they’re generally familiar with. As for why it’s set up that way…there are a few reasons why the makers of that continent might have chosen that path. Dedications can be chosen freely by the user, presuming their spirit is strong enough. Artinia has the greatest amount of choice involved in personal magic of any location in the world, at least in theory. In practice, spirit taxes and laws on copying House-specific bloodline arts place considerable restrictions on the capabilities of the general populace…but that’s a lengthy discussion in itself. Aside from the theoretical flexibility if their culture supported that freedom, using spirit arts is actually quite safe as long as you have the right dedication and has fewer side effects than conventional dominion sorcery.”

I nodded. “But…why use it over something like attunements, which also have few side effects?”

“Spirit arts and dedications have existed for thousands of years before the invention of attunements. When the worldmakers forged the world, theyeach had different ideas on how best to grant magic to the populace, but attunements are modern concept. They don’t exist in significant quantities outside of Kaldwyn. Crystal marks do exist elsewhere, but they’re not nearly as advanced, and function more like conventional dominion sorcery in terms of their toll on the body.”

“…Right. Okay.”

I had to admit, being able to choose your own type of magic was a huge appeal…of course, in practice, I was certain that “choose your own magic” likely meant “choose what your parents or government chose for you”. If I’d been born on Artinia with the same family, I would have undoubtedly ended up “choosing” to be something analogous to a Shaper, or whatever my Artinian father chose…and that might not have been any more freedom than what I ended up with on Kaldwyn.

Was there a better way to handle power distribution, one that would allow true freedom of choice?…Probably not. Not without setting up a society around it, at least.

That was something I’d have to consider more if I was serious about pursuing my brother’s goals for the Ascension faction.

“You appear to be a bit distracted,” Len noted.

“Sorry. My mind was just wandering to ideas for how to handle the ethical power distribution better.”

“Oh! That’s one of my favorite subjects. I think you’d like the model on Dania — ah, but we’re getting distracted. You wanted to know how to help your sword.”

“Right. Thorn. Do you know what can be done?”

“You’ve already done the most important part by having Mary weaken the seal. It’s possible that the rest will fix itself, eventually.”

“How long is eventually?”

“Unknown. I can attempt some diagnostic magic, but that’s like asking ‘how quickly will this patient recover’. Too many variables for diagnostic magic to easily provide a clear answer for. It’s worth doing, but I won’t be able to give you perfect information.”

I nodded. “Okay. What can I do to accelerate the process?”

“The basic answer is that you were thinking along the right lines with healing Thorn’s spirit, but you don’t have the right tools. Emulating a spirit healing art is a good idea, but that particular art was likely meant to be used for in-combat healing of specific spirit structures. Using it on the swordmay not be healing the right targets, especially if Thorn’s connections with his other layers of self have been damaged — that would require a more targeted type of healing magic, or perhaps some form of communication or constellations magic specialized in forming or rebuilding connections. If you’d like, I can begin some diagnostic spells on the sword, but unfortunately, I don’t have the mana to perform them all at once. May I borrow the sword for a time, as Mary did?”

“Of course. I’d be grateful for any help you could provide. Assuming you can figure out the details, do you think you can help Thorn?”

“Perhaps, but it’s unlikely I can handle it directly. It is, however, more likely that I would be able to figure out enough about the core problem to point you toward someone or something that can. Perhaps a safer spell you could repeatedly use to gradually fix the problem, or possibly a relevant gateway crystal.”

“That sounds wonderful, thank you.”

“Excellent. If that’s it for the immediate concerns, then, perhaps we can resume the conversation about ethical methods of magical power distribution over tea?”

I gave Len a genuine smile. “…I think I’d like that very much.”

***Our discussion was a peaceful one, a much-needed bit of relaxation and philosophical talk after far too much combat and political wrestling. After that, Len took Selys-Lyann to perform her tests.

I wasn’t expecting a straightforward answer, but to my surprise, I got one later in the evening when she arrived at my door to hand it off to me.

“Several layers of the sword are damaged, but the largest issues are on the shade and dream layers,” she explained, holding the sword by the scabbard to return it to me. I took Selys-Lyann and replaced the sword on my belt. “This is likely a consequence of the baseline composition of banishment mana being more harmful to shadow composite mana types than others. All of the layers are healing, but slowly. It could be years before the sword recovers entirely. The spirit layer is healing faster than most, likely both due to your work and because spirit is less vulnerable to banishment than shade and dream.”

I took a breath. “Sounds like I need an expert on shade or dream magic, then? Or both?”

“Both would be ideal, but there are solutions to that.” She adjusted her glasses. “I did some investigating, both for your purposes and my own. My own shrine is, in fact, currently contested and would not be a proper solution to your sword issue, even if it was available.” She sounded a bit sad, perhaps concerned, but continued. “The dream shrine is a poor option, too whimsical and unpredictable to offer a reliable solution. The shade shrine, however…” She gave me a determined nod. “Well, you’re already planning to go there, and there’s a chance it could help.”

“A chance?” I asked.

“With my limited amount of information, I can’t guarantee the shade shrine would be willing or able to do anything. But given that you’re already planning to visit on Miss Callahan’s behalf, provided you do not have another boon you urgently need, it would be worth asking.”

I sighed. “I was thinking about asking the shade shrine to help Sera.”

“Ah.” She nodded. “Another wise thing to ask about, but I think you may be wiser to wait on one of the god beasts for that, given that Seiryu has already played a role in the process of saving her.”

“You think they’ll help?”

“I can’t say for sure. I’ll spend more time looking at Sera’s issues when I have it — her issues are closer to my own area of expertise than Mara’s are, and there’s a higher chance I can do something to help directly.”

I felt a great deal of relief when I heard that. “…Thank you.”

“Don’t thank me. I don’t think I’ll actually be able to solve it. But I’ll be better for diagnostics, at least.” She shook her head. “Are you ready to go to the shrine?”

I blinked. “Already? Is everything set up?”

“It is.” She pulled a paper out of her bag. “And I have permission to escort you and your team.”

“Huh.” I accepted the papers. I couldn’t read them — they were in Cas. I had to take it on her word that they didn’t say something like, “This is Corin Cadence. Upon reading this message, please murder him immediately. Thanks, Hannah, <3.”

She probably wouldn’t sign the heart, but I didn’t know. I’d seen weirder things in the last few days.

“Thanks. I, uh, probably should have asked this before, but can you afford the mana cost to teleport us back and forth yourself?”

“More or less. I was going to ask you to recharge me with some of your batteries after you’ve finished the shrine, if they haven’t been fully used in the challenges.”

“That should be doable.”

“But don’t save the batteries for that purpose, Corin. Make no mistake— this shrine is dangerous. Not as dangerous as some, but you could still be hurt or killed if you hold back.”

“Understood.” I took a deep breath. “And that won’t be a problem. I’m very done with holding back.”

