CHAPTER XXVI – TRIPLE TRIAL

Sera and I walked back to our room, glancing behind us periodically to ensure we weren’t being followed. I threw a few detection spells here and there, just to be extra cautious.

Finally, we closed the bedroom door and slumped down in chairs opposite each other.

“Well,” Sera said, “that went about as positively as could be expected.”

I wrung my hands in the air. “That was infuriating. How could she not know anything about what we’ve been up to?”

“Let’s be fair, Corin. How much time have you spent researching what either of our mothers has been up to over the last five years?”

I paused, considering.

“That’s different. I’m the child. My mother should have put in more effort.”

“Agreed. That’s absolutely true. But when you’re talking about her lack of research, you’re principally talking about her lack of knowledge of the battles you’ve been in and your magical capabilities, not her lack of knowledge of your dalliances with the Theas family, or with a certain serpent, or—”

“I am not dallying with Satsuki.”

“But you didn’t deny the thing about Sheridan.” She winked at me.

“Ugh.” I put my hands down, reclining in the chair. “Not even getting into that. Fine, yes, you’re right, I’m more annoyed she doesn’t know about my battles and such. Because, you know, if she’s going to be betraying our nation, shouldn’t she at least be educated about our assets?”

“And you’re upset that you don’t rate being considered one of them?” Sera asked.

“That’s…” I took a breath. “I mean, maybe? I don’t know. Maybe that’s part of it. But I think…I think it’s mostly about what happened with Father.

That…that should have changed things.” “It did change things.”

“Sure. For him, obviously. But it didn’t change Mother’s impression of me.”

“Oh, no. I absolutely think it did. It’s just that it didn’t do it in the way that you would have wanted. You have to understand, a second-year Enchanter beating a veteran Shaper sounds absurd. Like he lost on purpose, or that you used a trick, or that Sheridan Theas helped — something Mother probably considered the moment Sheridan came up in conversation. She undoubtedly knew Sheridan was the judge.”

“Wait. Hold on.” I folded my arms. “Did you deliberately give her the impression that Sheridan helped me cheat in the duel somehow, when you brought them up?”

“Absolutely. Based on your previous talk, she’d read about the duel, meaning she’d know about Sheridan’s presence. I know you were ready to use your mana threads on your mother if the conversation took a poor turn, but you chose not to, and that means she likely remains unaware of your capabilities in that area. This is a good thing. She’ll now have reason to believe that you have powerful allies — which is a much better thing for her to think than that you have a personal ability which lets you nullify the powers of attuned. That is the type of surprise that, if she’s unaware of it, you may need later.”

“But she’s with Dalenos. They have to know what I can do, right?”

Sera shrugged. “I’m confident Katashi does, but he has reasons not to let your mother know. If she had a full idea of your capabilities, that might have made her less likely to agree to this deal, whenever it was struck.”

“…And at this point, it’s too late for me looking personally powerful to change her mind. Hm. What about the other Dalenos Six?”

“I don’t have any idea how much Katashi shares with them. They might know, they might not. But this is a political gathering, Corin, and I can’t stress enough how important it is that people believe that you have different types of power than the ones you actually possess. You want them to make the wrong moves. Thinking that Sheridan Theas won your duel for you somehow is the type of thing that could make their faction make mistakes.”

“At the cost of reinforcing Mother’s belief that I’m weak.”

“Corin. That demonstration with the crystals? There’s no way she’s going to think you’re weak now. Especially since you raised it in thecontext of winning the round of the duel, and how you got your weapons. Nice touch on talking about winning swords in the spire, that makes it more real to her, based on her background. No, she’ll believe you’re capable of fighting people at a high level now. She’ll just believe that it has to do with Enchanter-style preparations and social manipulation. This is mostly true, but wrong in ways that matter to our future plans. This was close to an ideal outcome.”

“…Close. It would have been better if we could change her mind.”

Sera considered that, then shook her head. “No, I don’t think it would have been.”

“What? Why?”

“Because there’s a high probability that if she changes her mind, Katashi just…detonates her or something. And the hostage.”

I shuddered at the thought. “He could still do that.”

“Absolutely, but at this point, her agreement is hypothetically keeping him from taking that action. This buys us time to deal with him, free the hostage, and right the situation. No, she’s best where she is, I think. I mean, in a general sense. I’m glad you didn’t have to trap her in the room.”

I sighed. “Yeah. I’ll…have to go back and change the wards later.”

The changes to the runes on the room had been subtle. I hadn’t told Len what I was doing in advance, which felt bad, but…it had been an emergency precaution. And I wanted to her to have deniability if someone found out. I didn’t want to get her into trouble if she agreed to help me with a plan that would have interfered with the council.

The plan, as I’d imagined it, was that I’d use my mana threads to turn off the attunements of our mothers, drop some supplies from my bag, and then trap them inside the room for the duration of the council.

Then, having flagrantly violated the rules of the council, I would have fled the tower with my friends — probably straight to the Seventh Spire. We were right nearby and Lute owed me a way in.

Fortunately, we didn’t have to make that move quite that soon. I hoped we wouldn’t have to flee the place in general, but if we did, I wanted to talk to Lute about what the spire entailed ahead of time.

And so, with that in mind…I took a break, chatted with Sera a little more, and then headed off to my next difficult conversation.

***I found Lute in the Valian meeting hall, which was a little strange, given that he was ostensibly voting along with the Dalenos delegation. Or maybe it wasn’t? There were others from foreign countries around, too, presumably for that political stuff I wasn’t great at.

He was, at that time, talking to Mary Hawthorne. I hesitated as I saw them, but Mary waved amiably as soon as she caught sight of me. I steeled myself to approach.

“Corin! Come to wish me luck for my match?” Mary asked. “Or, you know, maybe throw a few more items at me?”

“Oh. Round three. Right. Uh, no to the first? Maybe to the second? Is there something you — wait, are you fighting him?” I looked at Lute.

“We don’t know,” Lute reached up to adjust his glasses, “but, based on prior data, I find it unlikely. I’ve finished my third round, so I’m considered an Emerald now, and technically I’m eligible to be used against her. But it would be very early to consider me an ‘established emerald’. If I am sent out at all, it will likely be deployed strategically to oppose someone who cannot be beaten otherwise. For Mary, they have other options.”

Mary put a hand to her chest. “Wow, Lute. Huge vote of confidence there.”

He offered her an apologetic shrug. “I merely offer the truth, Miss Hawthorne. A power you may be one day, but at this moment?” He shook his head. “Not without your bow or your flower — and now, they are both known strengths. And known weaknesses.”

“Rosie isn’t mine. Neither is Arc—er, the bow. Look, I see what you’re getting at, but you shouldn’t underestimate me.”

“It isn’t like that. Unlike some others, I see the trajectory you are under, Miss Hawthorne. And the hand that guides it. I cannot speak to the others.” He turned to me. “In conclusion, Cadence, you may lend her any assistance you wish and I will not be offended. There is no real risk that helping her will hinder me.”

“Right. I’ll…keep that in mind.” I didn’t mention the fact that, to outsiders, we were supposed to be in opposition to each other in general — he had, as far as others could see, beaten me and crushed my hopes of getting a vote for myself. Saying it out loud would have just made things worse. “Actually, I had something to follow up with you in private, Lute?”

“Oh, certainly. Miss Hawthorne, we can resume this in…what, fifteen minutes?”

“Cutting it close, but there should be time before the match if you hurry.” Mary nodded to him. “And Corin? If you don’t need them…your sigils?”

“You can borrow one, but I won’t walk around without one.” I pulled one of my shield sigils off and handed it to her. She fastened it onto the enchanted robes we’d worked on. She had another shield sigil of her own pinned onto her pants, but that was just a classic school model, much weaker than the ones I used.

“Thanks. If you have time after talking to Lute, come watch me?” I nodded. “Will do.”

Lute and I walked off after that. I angled us toward a dueling room, but he shook his head.

“Not those. Someone compromised the security runes. The spire’s master noticed, and now the sparring rooms are going to be monitored for the rest of the day. We can just go to my room. I’m staying by myself.”

“In the Dalenos wing?” I frowned. “I’m…not so sure I should be walking in there alone.”

“You aren’t alone.” He blinked. “Oh. Right. I don’t count anymore, doI?”

“Not at this moment. You could…uh, offer me safe passage? On yourhonor?”

“How very old-fashioned of you. Been reading stories of witchcraft and faeries? My sister loved those. Or…so I hear.” He shook his head. “Yes, fine. I swear on my name that I will give you safe passage to and from my chambers.”

“On your name? Now that’s old-fashioned.”

“It is. And it offers a window to introduce myself more properly.” “As Ruto Muramasa, rather than Lute?” I asked.

“Oh, no.” He shook his head. “One only uses true names when swearing like this, remember? Ruto Muramasa is my given name, but not my true name.”

He leaned in close to my ear, the feeling of his aura brushing against mine causing my hairs to stand on end.

“I will protect you, Corin Cadence. I swear on my title, the Beast Blade of Knowledge, and my true name — Absolute Victory.”

I took a hurried step back after his dramatic statement. “Huh. So Lute is a pun for both names.”

“Really? That’s your reaction?” He rolled his eyes. “Also yes. Now, come on. I have an escort quest to do, apparently, and no one likes those.”

True to his word, Lute led me to his room. We certainly drew some glances on the way, but I didn’t recognize any of the people looking.

I certainly recognized Emerald-level auras, though. Those were in abundance.

There had to be three times as many people present in the Dalenos wing as we had in the Valian one. That wasn’t a good sign.

I had to wonder if that was because Dalenos was actually producing far more Emeralds than we were…or if they were simply more willing to bring them to the council in a show of force.

Or neither, I realized. Because they might just be poaching Emeralds from other nations, like they did with my mother.

If Katashi is holding my brother hostage, how many other Emeralds might he be blackmailing or controlling in other ways?Is…that something I could do anything about?We reached Lute’s room and he let me inside and closed the door behind us. It was similar in style to my own guest room, but smaller, built for a single resident. There were some unusual swords hanging on the walls— things I suspected Lute had brought with him, rather than just adornments from the room. I wanted to inspect them, but I had higher priorities.

“You may check the wards,” he told me. “I know you want to.”

I spent some time inspecting the room’s security, as well as looking for anything that might be spying on us…and physical traps. Couldn’t be too careful.

After that, I took a seat.

“Phew,” he said. “Half the escort mission down. At least you have a decent walking pace.”

“Decent? I’m a transference mage. I have a prodigious walking pace.”

“Maybe by human standards. You should try keeping up with people getting around my tower.” He tilted his head. “Which, I suppose, is why you’re here.”

I nodded. “Well, mostly. I’d also like to see if there’s anything I can do to dissuade you from supporting Dalenos, assuming you end up with a vote.”

“Directly? In conversation? Not so much. If you do pursue the Seventh Spire route prior to the end of this conflict, however, there’s a good chance that you could influence the voting through speaking to my father.”

“Is…that a thing that happens with climbing the Seventh Spire, the way we planned? And is this something we can just talk about?”

He shook his head. “Most people don’t, even if they make it all the way through their tests. I can pull some strings to try to arrange a meeting, either with him or the voice. As for whether or not we can talk about this, yes, now that we have a deal. Provided you keep to the remaining terms?”

“I believe the only thing I have left to do is this.” I reached into my bag and retrieved the Petitioner’s Coin, then handed it to him.

“Right you are. Good to get this part out of the way. I’ve already begun taking the steps necessary to set up your entrance to the spire, which is…a complex matter. You are, after all, under my brother’s protection, sort of, even if he’s skirting close to violating those rules himself.”

“Ah. Meaning that your father isn’t supposed to talk to me, since I’m Keras’ apprentice?”

“Specifically, he’s not supposed to threaten or harm you, but just being in your presence could do that when you’re as weak as you are.”

I folded my arms. “I’ve survived just fine in Katashi’s presence.” “Don’t assume this will be the same. But your point is taken and noted.

In any case, I’ve begun making arrangements. I would suggest that you visit in about two or three years, once you’ve hit Citrine-level.”

That…caught me off-guard.

“I was thinking…closer to now?”

“Yes, of course you were. Humans lack patience. Don’t worry, that’s not an insult — visages, apparently, have a similar failing.” Lute let out a long- suffering sigh. “Some of my siblings are worse.”

“Meaning…Beast Blades? Sacred Swords?”

“Yes. Both of those. Of course, some are more sibling-looking than others.” Lute tapped the sword on his side.

“What’s the difference between you? Why do some of you have human bodies, and not others?”

“That’s not something I’m allowed to share, sorry. You can ask around the spire if you actually get to the right place. For now, though, let me lay some other things out for you.”

I nodded. “Go ahead.”

“First, you’ve bought yourself a ticket into the Seventh Spire. Congratulations. There aren’t a lot of people who can manage to even get close to that point.”

“You mentioned needing the Six Sacred Swords for the Wielder’s Gate.

Is that how Keras got in?”

“That’s his story to tell, not mine.” Lute shook his head. “But you’re on the right track. As for the other gates…”

“Similar requirements, I take it? Six of something else, of…oh, six Emeralds? No, that’s too easy.”

Lute laughed. “You might have more in common with Keras than you realize, talking like that. But you’re right and wrong. In ways that are very insightful.”

“Yes, that’s me. Master of insight. In what way, exactly?”

“The Ascension Gate typically opens for six Emerald-level attunements…from different spires. You need at least one attunement from each spire within your group.”

I exhaled a breath. “Yeah. That’d explain the difficulty getting in. But… still…people should have…”

“They have. We’ve had teams from Pending get in. Most of them have not fared well. The Trials of Ascension are not easy, Corin Cadence. And they are designed for seven Emerald-level attuned.”

“Seven?” I frowned. “But only six attunements required among them? That feels a little odd, and most spires only require six people. Is it because it’s the Seventh Spire, or…?”

“If there’s some deeper meaning than that, even I’m not aware of it.” He shrugged. “The practicalities are more important to be aware of. You’ll need a team of seven people.”

“…Okay. I’ll plan for that. But…”

“You aren’t an Emerald. Most of your friends aren’t, either. And while you may be thinking, ‘We can match an Emerald in a fight under extremely narrow circumstances,’ you don’t actually have an Emerald-level mana pool. You’d suffer in endurance challenges, or ones where you don’t have time to even the playing field with prepared enchantments. I understand that you are unlikely to wait until you reach Emerald, as the war may have resolved before you reach that point. But if you walk in here and now? You’ll die. I don’t need the level of precognitive abilities of some of my siblings to tell you that.”

“…I don’t suppose there’s another gate that’s better for talking?”

“There isn’t. The Climber’s Gate for the Seventh Spire is actually worse for you — it doesn’t require as much personal power, but it’s designed for more people, and for a larger number of challenges. The Ascension Gate is closer to a Judgment. Longer than one, but shorter than climbing all the way to the top of a spire. Seven floors.”

“That’s a lot more information than I was expecting, to be honest.”

“I made a deal to keep you from harm until I escort you back to your room. If I gave you bad advice — the kind that could lead you to your death— that would not be delivering on my promise of safe passage.”

I genuinely thought he was stretching that a bit, but given that he was some sort of non-human entity himself, he might have different standards. Maybe he actually operated on inscrutable faerie rules. I didn’t know, but I wasn’t going to complain.

“Anything else you can tell me?” I asked.

“Not too much. The challenges change every time. You will have clearer instructions when you get there — the Voice of the Tower insists on it.”

I felt a pang of something when I heard that name. “The voice of…” “Every spire has someone that plays that role. Ours…may have reasonsto favor you, but they will not save your life if you make the mistake of coming in when you are completely unprepared. You should wait, Corin.”

I took a breath. “I’ll take that into consideration. What if…I brought an escort of six powerful Emeralds or something?”

“While you will not be fighting alone for the entire test like in a Judgment, there is a high chance some of the floors will involve you being alone. You cannot rely on companions to carry you. Similarly, your companions must be able to take care of themselves. You should be especially cautious about this point, Corin. While you might be capable of surviving these ordeals earlier than normal with some sort of enchanting trickery, your friends are not all capable of the same. If you value their lives, you will not take them to the Seventh Spire until you are confident that they can handle Emerald-level threats on their own.”

I wanted to protest, but he was absolutely right. Sera was in no shape for anything alone — and probably couldn’t handle an Emerald without invoking Seiryu even at her best.

Well, or summoning Keras, but that was the kind of trick you could only play once, and it wasn’t a good idea in this situation.

…Or was it?“Is Keras still in the Seventh Spire?”

Lute looked surprised by the question, but quickly turned his expression more neutral. “I can’t answer that one. Sorry.”

“It could make a difference. If I could reach him—”

“No. It’s a bad move. He needs to do what he’s doing. And even if you wouldn’t be a burden to his plans, it doesn’t matter. You find some trick to get Keras to help you? Great. That works while he’s standing near you. Patrick still dies on another floor when he’s alone.”

I winced. “Okay. I get the idea. I won’t bring anyone who can’t handle it. But—”

“You need to wait. Or find means of getting power faster.” I raised an eyebrow at that. “Such as?”

“Give it a few days. Someone will talk to you, I’m sure.” “How do you know?” I asked.

“Because,” he adjusted his glasses again, “I live up to my name, Corin. That isn’t automatic. I have to work for it, to pay attention to my goals. And getting you through the spire safely would be a victory for me.”

***True to his word, Lute escorted me safely back to the Valian side of the spire. I went back to my bedroom, filled Sera in on what I’d learned, and grabbed a snack. From there, I met up with Mary and offered her a few more items, which she accepted.

After that, I met up with Len to watch Mary’s final match.

I prepared myself to watch an epic battle. Things did not go as expected.

***I watched as Mary entered the dueling chamber, readying her bow. Her opponent entered at the same time, but with no weapon in evidence. Not of the ordinary variety, at least.

The man wore long robes with intricate runes scrawled across the surface in two parallel segments, a pair of gem-studded bangles on his wrists, and glasses with thick lenses made of something that looked too dark to be ordinary glass.

From a brief glance with Detect Aura, I could see Emerald-level auras emanating from each of the items, and others besides — a ring he was wearing over a glove on his right hand, and something else underneath theleft glove. Two more Citrine-level auras from his boots, or from inside them.

With that many auras…An Enchanter? Either that, or someone has been absolutely loading him with equipment.

I blinked, then turned Detect Aura off. “That’s…not Hikaru Hisashi, is it?” I asked Len.

She shook her head. “No. I can’t tell you much, but no, it’s not.”

That was a little nerve-wracking. We’d planned for a specific opponent, but we’d known that we couldn’t be certain we’d estimate correctly. We’d talked about other opponent options, but so far as I could recall, an Enchanter wasn’t even on the list.

I hadn’t actually seen an Enchanter attunement, or any attunement for that matter, but with that many powerful items, it was the most likely explanation. Wealth could certainly explain it, too. Several of the items he wore looked brand-new, like they’d been made just for this match.

I knew it was likely at least a couple Emerald-level Enchanters existed, but I hadn’t seen this one in the Valian meeting area. He looked Valian, at least in terms of his complexion, but that didn’t mean anything — people moved around all the time, and if Farren Labs was any indication, other nations seemed to give Enchanters better treatment than home.

“Miss Hawthorne,” the presumed Enchanter began, “is there any chance I can convince you to surrender, or must we proceed with this ugliness?”

Mary shook her head. “Apologies, sir, but I can’t surrender now. If you’d like to surrender, though, I’m happy to accept!”

“I wish I could. Ah, well. Best to get this over with.” The man pressed a finger on a gemstone on his ring.

Mary tensed, forming a glowing arrow as she pulled back the string on her bow, but didn’t loose it right away. She was, it seemed, waiting for her opponent to make the first move.

An honorable choice, maybe. But against an Enchanter, the wrong one. A metallic  rune-etched  cylinder  appeared  in  mid-air  next  to  theEnchanter. I only got the briefest of glances at the runes on it as the item appeared, but with my level of familiarity, that was enough to notice something missing.

Capacity runes.

I realized what was happening in a moment, rising to my feet in alarm, but Mary was multiple rooms away.

Accelerated Computation.

My mind raced through options. Could I call off the match for a rules violation? Activate the borrowed return circlet she was wearing?I didn’t have a mana string attached to it, but if I could reach the anchor—Not enough time. Nowhere near enough time.

The Enchanter didn’t even have to move — he just flicked a fingertoward the cylinder, a burst of transference hurling it in Mary’s direction. I ran for the door.

“Corin, what are you—” Len’s voice asked.

I turned back toward Len — and the viewing device she was using — for just a moment. Just enough to catch what was happening out of the corner of my eye.

Not that I needed to see it. Everyone in the entire spire must have heard and felt what happened next.

When I’d first learned about enchanting, I’d heard stories about failed items without proper capacity runes. They’d been a little exaggerated — a single Quartz item without a capacity rune wasn’t likely to blow up a whole building when it exploded. I’d more or less proven that when I’d deliberately set off Jin’s shield sigil.

At Carnelian-level, taking out a building with a failed Enchanting experiment was much more likely. Fortunately, most Enchanters knew what they were doing at that point, which meant that if any item was missing a capacity rune…Well, that was probably deliberate.

And when an Emerald-level Enchanter pulls out an item without a capacity rune on it, presumably from an extra dimensional storage item that kept it in stasis, there was an obvious explanation. One that any other moderate-level Enchanter would guess, but that your average attuned would be unlikely to read in time.

“It’s a bo—”

That’s as far as I managed before cylinder flashed and detonated with an explosion that could have leveled a small town.

The entire tower shook as the walls of the room blew outward, wards overloaded by the sheer power of the explosion. The tremor, combined withthe thunderous roar of the explosion shattering stone and metal, made me stumble as I watched the viewing device in horror.

The explosion had been near instant, too fast for Mary to react. I thought that I’d seen something just before the flames and shrapnel reached her, a glowing figure that manifested in the way of the blast for just an instant—But if that image had been real, it hadn’t been enough.

The image of the room was hazy, but I could see both Mary and her opponent lying in the debris of the chamber, covered in blood.

***I rushed to the door. Len was faster, presumably through teleportation.

She got in my way, raising a hand. “Easy, there. Watch.”

I followed her gesture, tense. As I watched, two figures appeared in blown-out remains of the chamber — one next to each combatant.

“One of the advantages of having dozens of Emeralds under one roof.

Lots of teleportation, lots of Emerald-level healing.”

“Emerald doesn’t always mean the best at their job. What if—”

“You can’t go in there, Corin. This is a very delicate situation. That strategy was…” Len shook her head. “Unorthodox. There will be debate about if it was fair play.”

I tightened my hands, then forced myself to take a breath. “…Mary’s life is in a delicate situation right now. I don’t care about the politics, I need to help her!”

“Maybe you could help her a bit. I don’t doubt it, given the degree to which you’ve demonstrated a variety of eclectic talents. Even so, there’s a process for this, and you’re not assigned as a medic. It’s stretching the rules to let you watch the match at all. You should not know about these fights, let alone walk into the room right after they happen.”

“That isn’t even a room anymore, Len.”

“Yes. And if you’re aware of that, and walk into there, it’s going to be clear you were watching the match — which you shouldn’t be — and people may look into whether or not it was fair for you to be stacking Miss Hawthorne with magical items prior to each match. As it stands, if she comes out of this alive, there’s a good chance she’s earned her vote. You could lose her that if you interfere.”

I clenched my hands. “I’m more worried about her surviving than a vote.”

“Reasonable, as far as friends are concerned, but also not your decision to make. And, at this point, it’s irrelevant.”

She gestured to the viewing crystal. The bodies — alive or dead — had been teleported out of the room. People were working to repair the walls.

“Will they be able to help her?” I asked, my shoulders slumping.

“I think you’re vastly underestimating the degree of the healing capabilities of Emeralds. Yes, she’s badly hurt, but she will have the best of care.” She frowned. “But that isn’t what this is really about, is it?”

“I…” I looked back at the devastated combat chamber. “I’m tired of seeing my allies getting hurt and being unable to do anything about it. I saw what was going to happen, but I wasn’t fast enough.”

“I don’t even know if a visage could have reacted quickly enough to stop that.”

My expression hardened. “Then I have to be faster than that.” Len shook her head sadly. “Unrealistic.”

“Maybe. But…even if I couldn’t have been there fast enough, if I was a better healer…”

“Even if you were a full-time healer, and the best of the best, there would be situations where you couldn’t help the people you wanted to. Cases like triage, where there are higher priorities for healing. Even right now, there are probably Valian healers being forced to save their healing for people who are more injured, more important, rather than being able to work on the people who need it.”

“I hate that.” It was a more direct response than I usually made, but from the heart.

“I do, too. But in life, politics and priorities often get in the way of pursuing what we want.” Len waved, causing the display of the now-empty room to vanish. “If it helps, I can ask if she wants to see you once she wakes up.”

“Can you…keep an eye on her? And let me know if an extra hand might be helpful?”

“No,” she said simply. I blinked. “Why?”

“Do you think I’m going to sit around all day and watch a single injured person being treated? I do have other things to do, Corin. Important things. And while I’m trying to be gentle here, because I can tell that you’redealing with something bigger than this, Mary being injured is normal and expected.”

“But what if the healers can’t be trusted. If there’s sabotage—”

“I can appreciate a good dose of paranoia, but she’s being assigned a Valian healer. And yes, Valia has infiltrators, of course. But do you think that they’re going to blow their cover on something as minor as this?”

“Given that someone was willing to blow themselves up to try to take Mary out, I’d say that’s possible. And that,” I said, “isn’t the first time I’ve seen that methodology.”

“The train,” Len mused aloud. “I did hear about that. You think it’s connected?”

“I think it’d be a pretty significant coincidence if it’s not.”

“Maybe, maybe not. Surprises with explosives are not an uncommon strategy for dealing with high-level attuned.”

“But self-destructing with one?” I asked.

“…Unusual, yes. Certainly indicates an unusual degree of fervor. Or perhaps something being held over them, to be willing to make such a move.” Len considered it. “That still wouldn’t imply the healers are suspect.”

“No, but it’s a vulnerability. And if they’re willing to go to such extreme measures to take someone out…I think this is about more than just Mary getting a potential vote.”

“It could be, but I still don’t think you need to be concerned at this phase. First, there will be more than one healer in the room. Second, any deaths would involve a major investigation, and Diviners can see the past of a room. Anything overt would be caught. Third, most healers aren’t assassins. Even if one has been compromised, their ethics would make it very unlikely they’d act on their own to just off someone for reducing our vote count.” She shook her head.

“Can you just show us her room?” I asked.

“Yes, I technically can. I absolutely won’t, though. It’s one thing showing you a fight that’s designed to be observed. Spying on a medical procedure that’s in process? That’s very different, Corin. You didn’t get her permission for that. And while I have a certain degree of oversight as the Master of Ceremonies who is running much of this affair, even I shouldn’t be spying on people at random times and places. If you had any clear reasonto suspect sabotage at this specific moment, I’d consider it, but…” She shook her head. “No.”

“Then I’m going to go ask someone else.”

“Corin, wait. Aside from Master Constantine, there isn’t really anyone who—”

“Where do I sign up to be a healer?”

“That’s a clever thought, but it wouldn’t get you in right now. They’d have to test your competency, which would be an involved matter.”

“Then what can I do?”

“If you genuinely want to help?” Len considered. “Let’s go see Rose. Tell her what happened, since she couldn’t watch this. Then, you can offer to help Rose gather any of Mary’s personal things she might want while she’s in a recovery room. That, at least, might get you in to see Mary a little after.”

I nodded. “You think they’ll keep Mary in a recovery room, rather than just sending her back to her chamber?”

“With injuries like those? Absolutely, she’ll be under observation for a while. That’s a good thing, though, Corin. Don’t overthink it. It doesn’t mean she’s in significant danger — barring anything truly unusual, she’ll be just fine. But any time someone gets knocked out for more than a few seconds, it’s wise to keep them under observation for a day or so, just in case.”

“Okay. Let’s go talk to Rose, then.”

“I’ll take you to her, but after that, I’ll go take a look at the damage to that room. You’ve convinced me that it’s worth investigating if there was anything strange about that cannister. Investigating the damage is within my responsibilities and won’t look suspicious.”

“Can you look into who that was fighting her? See if there are any suspicious connections?”

“Yes, but the damage to the room comes first. It’s easier to perform divinations immediately in the aftermath of an event.”

I nodded in understanding.

Len was true to her word, taking me to Rose, explaining things briefly, then going to investigate the damage.

Rose had a grim look as we headed to their rooms. She handed me things to shove into my dimensional bag. I found myself taking the role that Len had just played for me only minutes before.

“She’ll have Emerald-level healers. She’ll be fine.”

Rose pointedly didn’t look at me, instead going through drawers and pulling out clothes. She paused when she pulled out a black shirt, lifting it and pulling it to her chest.

“…Kuro should have been fine, too.”

***They let us in to see Mary about four hours later. She was, apparently, in surgery for most of that time. While some types of healers had ways of removing shrapnel magically — like teleporting it out of someone’s body— using healers to keep someone stable while shrapnel was surgically removed was still the most common and generally preferred method, at least in Valia.

Mary was…not in great shape.

But she was alive. It had come very close.

She was asleep when we came in, the healers using sleep magic to keep her unconscious during the surgical process. There were visible stitches still on her face and her right arm. I couldn’t see anything else with the blankets covering her, but she presumably had other stitches, too.

It seemed a little mundane as far as wound treatment went, but when I asked, one of the healers explained that some of her internal damage was bad enough that flooding her with excessive life mana would potentially cause side effects during her recovery. Thus, they’d needed to keep it to a minimum.

I didn’t take that as being perfectly accurate, given my suspicious mind, but after a couple hours of reading medical books while Mary slept, it sounded like it was plausible, at least.

I felt a pang of relief when Mary’s eyes finally opened.

It was a slow thing, her shifting subtly in her bed. Rose woke up a moment later, having fallen asleep in a chair next to the bed, holding Mary’s hand.

“R…Rosie…” Mary stammered, blinking. “W…what?” She looked around the room.

“Easy, hon. Doc said you don’t wanna to move your neck. You…had a bad fall there, Mary.”

“I…did?” She blinked. “I don’t…I don’t remember. Where…” Her eyes caught me, briefly widening. “C—Corin?” She pulled up her blankets a little more, looking self-conscious. “What…what are you doing here?”

I blinked, then processed the fact that most of the clothes that she’d been wearing were in a bloodstained pile on a nearby chair. She was presumably wearing some sort of hospital-gown-style garment under the blankets.

I turned away. “Sorry! Wasn’t expecting to, uh…”

Rose glanced between us, then made the first smile I’d seen on her face in a while. “Wow. Yer both turning redder than my name. Just goin’ all-in on double knockouts today, Mary, aren’t cha?”

“Is…that what happened?” She turned to Rose and frowned. “I can’t remember.”

“Doc said it might take a bit. Might not get it all back, like when you fall asleep and can’t remember what you were thinkin’ of right before.”

“Oh.” Mary took a breath, considering. “Does it count as a win, if we both got knocked out?”

“They’re…still talkin’ ‘bout that. For the moment, you just need to rest up, hon.”

Mary nodded, then winced. “…Wow. You weren’t kidding about the neck.” She fidgeted awkwardly. “Can you, uh, give me a second to change, if you’re staying, Corin?”

I mumbled something incoherent and went for my bag.

“That’s why he’s here. Other than checking on you, obviously. Poor thing was trying not to sound worried about you. I think he might like you, Mary.”

“I am right here.”

“And it’s so very sweet of you,” Rose told me. “Now, start handin’ me stuff, then give us a few?”

I went through the awkward process of unloading Mary’s items into Rose’s hands without ever looking in Mary’s direction. Rose put the items down elsewhere in the room, then came back to me until I’d finished unloading. Then, they kicked me out.

It was a solid ten minutes before they called me back in. Mary was still under her covers, but I could tell from her collar that she’d changed her top, at least.

“Corin,” Mary said, a faint blush still evident. “I have the items I borrowed laid out over there.”

I nodded mutely, picking the items up and putting them away.

“Rosie says the shield sigil and robe enchantments might have helped save my life. So…thank you, Corin,” Mary said, sounding like she was holding back tears. “And for visiting me. I won’t forget the favor I owe you. Or, favors, really.”

I mumbled a “you’re welcome,” still awkward about looking in her direction. I heard Rose chortle off to my side and mutter something about a “couple of blushing babies” or something.

Shortly thereafter, one of the doctors came by and kicked me out for a while as she checked in on Mary. I was allowed back in a half hour or so later, but only briefly.

“I’m told I should be getting some rest,” she said, shuffling uncomfortably. “Can I ask you for another small indulgence?”

I blinked in surprise. “Sure. What do you need?”

“Rose is going to watch me right now, but after what happened with Kuro…I don’t want to be stuck alone here at any point. And she’s going to have to sleep. Can you talk to your sister and help arrange for watch shifts for me?”

“You got it.” I let out a breath. “Glad to help.” “Thanks, Corin. You’re one of the good ones.”

I didn’t think it was as simple as good or bad. But I wanted to help her, and I hoped that would be enough.

***I went to find Sera, as expected. We set up watch shifts to rotate with Rose and keep an eye on Mary.

“You did well,” Sera told me. “Len may have been underplaying it, but there’s enough of a chance of foul play that I think that keeping an eye on Mary is a good idea.”

“Do you think Len was misleading me?” I asked.

“No, nothing like that. I think she’s just trying to teach you that you can’t do everything at once. Whenever someone close to you gets hurt, you have a habit of dropping everything to jump on the new problem. It’s sweet, but it’s not always productive. The council starts tomorrow and we have other things to do.”

“Less so, since I didn’t win my match.” I groaned.

“Don’t underestimate the value of being a Cadence among politicians. Or an Arbiter. Or a Wielder of a Sacred Sword. And, while you might not have a vote, your retainer does. You have a lot of cards to play, Corin.

You’ve already been doing a good job of leveraging them, but there’s more to do.”

“There’s always more to do,” I said with another groan.

“Heavy is the burden of our majesty.” Sera gave me a wink. “Now, back to business. Tomorrow is a big day. We’re going to be meeting the Emperor of Edria. You’re going to need some new clothes.”

