CHAPTER XXV – FAMILY BUSINESS

We left the tavern quickly after that. In spite of the food seeming normal, I didn’t get any. Mara, Len, and Elora were waiting, and I was relieved to step out the door and begin the teleportation jumping back to the Emerald Council.

With both Elora and Len with us, we didn’t have any downtime between teleportation jumps. They had enough mana between them to get us all the way back to the tower without any difficulty.

I wondered at the amount of resources that we were taking away from the council by having two high-level teleportation-capable attuned with us. Elora taking the time to grab me for a meeting implied a significant investment, although admittedly, it was the middle of the night. We might be losing sleep, but it wasn’t like Elora or Len were missing any major political events.

I had a lot to think about when we got back.

Mara and I trudged back toward our room, stopping by the dining hall to pick up food to bring with us (she hadn’t eaten at the tavern either).

Patrick jumped to his feet the moment we came through the door. “You’re okay!”

Sera was in bed, but she stirred immediately at Patrick’s exclamation.

He put a hand over his mouth and blushed, but the damage was done.

“Who…wha…” Sera sat up straight, rubbing at her eyes. “Oh.” She processed us. “Just you two coming in. Okay.”

She laid back down, then after a moment, blinked, and sat back up. “Wait. Weren’t you…doing something…oh. The shrine. You okay?”

Mara and I closed the door behind us, then sat down in chairs next to the room’s writing desks to eat.

“It’s a bit of a story. Might keep you up a while.” “S’okay,” she said. “I’m up.”

She clearly wasn’t entirely up, but we filled her in on the shrine.

As for the other meeting…I wasn’t quite ready to talk about that yet, at least not in detail. Not in a place I hadn’t secured enough. Instead, I simply told Patrick and Sera that Elora had shown up to take me to meet a contact, and that I’d made a tentative deal.

Sera frowned. “What sort of contact?”

“The type we don’t discuss here,” I told her. “It might be safer for me not to tell you at all.”

“You’re doin’ the annoying sage thing, Corin,” Mara pointed out.

“Oh, no.” I buried my head in my hands. “I’ve become my own monster.”

***We got to sleep not long after that. Patrick insisted on maintaining his watch shift. I couldn’t complain. I was exhausted.

I woke up a few hours later, went to the bathroom, and climbed back into bed…But before I went to sleep, I realized that I was already feeling better. Not fully awake, not fully recovered, but…better than I had in a long time, in a way that wasn’t fully tangible.

I wasn’t surprised that my surface-level injuries from the shrine had healed — I’d been wearing regeneration items, after all. What was more unusual was that even the more severe hits I’d taken, like the feeling that I’d bruised my ribs, had faded.

And more than that…my mind felt clearer than it had in weeks. Clearer than it had since Saffron.

I sincerely doubted that a matter of hours had been enough time for the shade weave to undo the damage I’d suffered from overusing the mana, but it seemed like progress was already being made.

If I could shave several more months of recovery time down to weeks… the trip to the shrine would have more than paid off the effort.

But more than that, if the shade weave could repair damage to essence structures and other layers of self that rapidly…I had to wonder how that would influence my essence growth.

Improving safe mana capacity was often compared to using a muscle. If you pushed yourself hard enough and healed, you’d come back stronger, unless you went too far and hurt yourself. A bit reductive, but the comparison seemed apt enough.

If I healed more rapidly from essence strain, would that influence my growth rate?I’d looked into that sort of thing for essence-based exercise items, but none of them seemed to be able to heal that kind of strain autonomously. But if a shade weave did, I could see three main possibilities.

First, maybe it wouldn’t change a thing. Maybe the recovery part of the process didn’t influence capacity growth in the way I was picturing, or the particular type of healing I had access to didn’t heal the right structures to cause any change. This seemed the most likely.

Second, it was possible it would help me recover faster and improve my capacity faster. If so, the boon was even more important than I thought.

Third, it was possible that rapid healing would actually hurt my mana growth, by preventing my essence structures from acclimating to the strain. If so, I’d have to figure out a way to limit the shade weave’s impact to prevent it from healing me too fast. Annoying, but likely doable.

I couldn’t test that in one night, but I could run a few basic safe mana tests. I knew the spells to use, I just…wasn’t sure if I wanted to use them.

I don’t want to let myself fall back into an obsessive habit…but taking a new benchmark number after getting power from a shrine absolutely makes sense.

I took a deep breath, then checked my mana levels. And I was floored by what I found.

My Arbiter attunement’s safe mana had shot up by almost two hundred points.

I checked it several times, but it wasn’t wrong. My safe mana capacity was 722 in my right hand. Twice the requirement for Sunstone. Nearly twice what I’d started with on the train, only a month or so before.

I was so stunned that I didn’t know what to do at first. Naturally, that meant I checked it several times, then checked everything else.

My Enchanter value was largely unchanged, showing only the normal and expected amount of mana growth from time passing. I half-panicked at the strangeness, then got out of bed and tracked down Len.

Fortunately, she wasn’t sleeping yet. I tended to forget that other people did that. She was reading when I knocked on the door of her room.

“Cadence. Haven’t slept yet?”

“A little, but uh, more important thing.” I waved my hand at her, failing to explain anything.

“Meaning?” she asked.

“Oh, right. Words. Uh…my attunement. It’s too good?” “Too good.” She frowned. “Meaning what, exactly?”

I got to explaining.

Then, eventually, through talking it out and some diagnostic spells, we sorted it out.

“So,” she said, “your father made you overuse your Dianis Point in your right hand before you had an attunement. That didn’t quite reach the point of what we call scarring, but it did cause damage to your star veins. And that damage…”

“Reduced my safe mana capacity. So…it’s fixed now?” I asked.

“Not entirely, but most of the way, and the remainder should heal over time now. That’s quite a shade weave you have. That degree of self-repair for internal essence structures is incredibly rare. That said, you should not expect any other massive surges of power like this one. I don’t detect any other similar damage to your essence. Consider this a single-time boost from healing the damage, much like what your sister experienced when her mana scarring was healed.”

I nodded. “I…didn’t realize that the pre-scarring damage was impeding me that much. Was I really more than two hundred mana behind because of that training? Would I have had two hundred more mana if I’d fixed this sooner?”

“Absolutely not, that would be absurd. It’s more like your efficiency was being reduced by a certain percentage based on the damage. If you’d healed it when you had twenty mana, you might have gotten another… seven or so mana out of it?”

“And my growth rate would have been faster.”

“Potentially.” She shrugged. “You might have trained differently without the damage. I wouldn’t overthink it. That said, there’s something else I noticed that you didn’t mention.”

“What do you mean? More damage?”

“No. The opposite.” She pointed at my chest. “Your spirit bond has grown stronger, too.”

I blinked.

I had totally forgotten to check that. In fairness, not only was it my newest power source, I’d slept like…three hours.

When I pulled up my shirt to check the mana, I found a surprise — my mark had changed visibly, like an attunement mark would. The sword’s blade had thickened, showing an extra line.

And my mana measurement showed a significant boost there, too. I’d gone from 296 mana right before the shrine to 386 — nearly a hundred points, and enough that as an attunement, it would have measured at Sunstone-level.

“Why?” I asked simply.

“This one is even easier to answer. Shade weaves and spirit bonds are closely related. By adding a shade weave connected to your spirit bond, especially one of a compatible type, you’ve improved the bond’s power by a notable margin.”

I nodded absently. “Thanks, Len.” “Congratulations. Now, go to sleep.” She shut the door. Which was fair.

I was still thinking about my new power — and how I could improve it further — when I finally fell back to sleep.

***The next morning, I felt even more refreshed, but absolutely famished. I’d eaten the night before, but I hadn’t eaten much the previous day, so it was too soon for me to be overly suspicious about if my new shade weave was increasing my appetite.

I got something to eat and came back to the room to find Mara sitting up in bed, propped up on pillows, and reaching out with one arm.

Every few seconds, a new shape of solid shadows would appear at the end of her limb. A hand, a claw, a straight blade.

“You’ve picked up on using that new crystal mark fast,” I told her quietly, pulling up a chair to sit at her bedside. I didn’t want to wake Patrick up by talking too loud, now that his shift was over and he was finally sleeping.

“Not what I want to do with it, long-term, but Sera convinced me it was a good way to practice. And I have to admit, it feels good to be able to do something with this arm again, even if it’s not…” She frowned. “It’s not the same as it should be.”

“I hear you. I mean, I haven’t been through the same thing, but I’m still down an attunement, and that feels…”

“Appreciate the sympathy. Let’s not push the comparison too far, though.”

I nodded hastily. “Right. And speaking of not pushing things, keep in mind that using that has a cost, so…”

“Yeah, I know. Trying simple shapes for now, only a second or so here or there. Just trying to build the mark up and practice, I know I can’t maintain anything for long at this level. Hoping that I’ll get to real healing at some point, but it’s still a long way off.”

“And you’ll need to heal the other layers, too, if you want to go that route. Maybe we can try to sneak into the spirit shrine at some point?”

She shook her head. “Not right away, at least. Too much of a risk of gettin’ other people hurt if we try that.”

“What about Suzaku, then? I could—”

She raised a hand to stop me. “I’ll talk to Elora sometime, see if we can make a deal. Might be a multi-step thing, where I do somethin’ for Sera and she does something for Elora, but you’ve done enough. Really appreciate you helping me out the way you did, there, but you’ve done enough for now.”

“…If you’re sure.”

“Gotta look after your sister, too, if you really need someone to help. She’s putting on a strong face, Corin, but she’s not doin’ great. My hurt might be more obvious, but she’s in bad shape.”

“I’ll put more time on that soon. Maybe Suzaku could help you both?” “Definitely plannin’ to ask. And I’m sure she’s gonna look into Seiryuon her own. But having more minds on it wouldn’t hurt. And beyond that… you need to look after yourself, too.”

“My shade weave seems to be helping already,” I told her. “I think I’ll be back to functional sooner than Deni originally expected.”

“That’s great to hear.” Mara gave me a soft smile. “But I don’t just mean that hurt, Corin. You’ve got other things you need to take care of. Like your mother being here, and whatever is going on with Lute. And, you know, the whole thing where people tried to have you killed.”

“Oh,” I sighed. “Right, all the things I’ve been avoiding thinking about.

Yep, there are those, too.”

“Let’s be fair.” She gave me a mischievous grin. “That’s only the start of the things you’ve been trying to avoid thinking about. It’s a part of your charm.”

I laughed. “Glad you think so. But if it’s getting that obvious…”

I	pushed	myself	out	of	the	chair.	“Guess	it’s	time	for	difficult conversation number one.”

“No,” Sera said. “Setup first. I have an idea. You’ve been given permission to inspect the wards in the building?”

“And make some minor security upgrades, sure. Warren and Len trust me. Why?”

“How much are you willing to stretch that?” I took a deep breath.

I did not like this in the slightest.

***“You sure you’re up for this?” Sera asked.

“Nope. Let’s do it anyway.” I gestured toward the dueling room door in front of us. It was marked as in-use.

“You should be the one in front. It makes a stronger impression.” “I didn’t want to presume—”

“It’s fine.” She shook her head. “No one is going to see me as your equal right now. Not yet. We’ll get to that.”

I took a deep breath. “Okay. Here we go.”

I knocked on the door. There was a pause. I couldn’t hear anything from outside, so that just left us waiting awkwardly until, finally, it swung open.

My mother was in there. She wasn’t alone, of course.

She was with one of her own retainers — Miss Anette Shard.

Sera’s mother. Or, at least, the woman who had claimed Sera as her own. I was reasonably confident at this point that Sera and I shared both of the same biological parents, but that had it been concealed from us. Still, there was room for more last-minute twists on that front.

Anyway, Anette Shard was effectively Sera’s mother, but less like an adopted parent and more like a willing participant in a conspiracy.

“Corin,” my mother said, “this is unexpected. I can’t imagine you had the audacity to have me followed, so I can assume this is Sera’s doing?”

“Yes, my sister has always been much better at the social game.”

I saw her react briefly to my choice of words, but I didn’t give her any space.

One thrust, then another, battering my opponent’s defenses. A conversation with family was always that way, wasn’t it?I hated that he’d taught me that.

“We’d both very much like to talk to our mother.” I gave her a little smile, glancing between both my mother and Miss Shard. “Would you mind if we come in?”

“Laura, if they’re here, then—” Miss Shard began.

“Not with the door open. Come on, children. Let’s have your talk.” I glanced at Sera. She nodded once. Then, we stepped inside.

***There was a temptation, of course, to use this particular time and place to discuss the issue of our paternity. And maternity, for that matter. In the case of the latter, very few venues could have been more appropriate.

But while pursuing that subject had a degree of appeal, and might serve the purpose of throwing any machinations they had into disarray, there were more important things we needed to understand.

I shut the door behind me, tapping my fingers briefly on the wall. Then, I turned to find my mother opening her arms to offer a hug. She still didn’t understand. That, I told myself, was why I accepted. It made things both easier and harder.

I let her hug me for a moment, invisible threads trailing as I finally pulled away.

Sera hugged her own mother, carrying other threads along with her. Then, the conversation began.

“Just how significantly did you sell our country out?” Sera asked. Mother frowned at her. “Excuse me, young lady?”

I followed her up. They could have no time to consider, to notice. “As you already noted, Sera is very much in her element here. And while I already called you out as a traitor — which you obviously are, given that you’re working with the Dalenos Six — it’s important that we get an idea just how badly you’ve compromised things. Unless, of course, you want to claim you’re some sort of triple agent?”

Mother scowled. “You can’t possibly think that calling me names is appropriate. Even if what you claimed in our last meeting was true, and you battled with Saffron — a laudable feat, if true — you can’t hope to have actually eliminated a vae’kes, even with some pauper boy’s help.”

I rolled my eyes. “Goddess above, even Father was paying more attention than this. That pauper boy is my retainer, Mother, so you’re insulting your own family.”

“Well, that makes two of us, doesn’t it? And you can’t blame me for being somewhat dismissive — if you decided to make a personal friend a retainer, that’s your prerogative, but I sincerely doubt that his value—”

Sera picked that up. “Patrick Wayland-Cadence is the personal apprentice of the current chancellor of Lorian Heights, Antonia Meltlake.”

“Wait. You took a Hartigan apprentice as your retainer?” Mother gave me a confused look. “How is that possible?”

“Well, for one thing, I’m pretty sure I got to him first. But beyond that, I was living with Derek Hartigan for the better part of a year, so it’s not like we have any political difficulties with the household.” I took a breath. “Of course, now—”

Sera interrupted me — wisely, since I was about to say something about Derek being lost in the fight with Saffron. Giving Mother that kind of information would be a mistake; we wanted her to think we were as strong or stronger than we were, physically and politically, not show signs of weakness.

“Now we’re primarily aligned with House Theas,” Sera picked up, “since Elora is, like me, a God Beast Summoner. And Corin and Sheridan have grown very close.”

Mother looked at me, scrutinizing. “…They’re a little old for you, but a match with House Theas would have been a tremendous coup, if things had gone differently. I’d considered pairing Tristan with Elora, you know. House Theas was a reach for us, even then, but with Elora being adopted, I thought she might be more plausible. Now that she’s the heiress, though…” Mother shook her head, then turned to Sera. “You’ve gotten even better at saying things without giving the entire story, young lady, but even if it’s true that they’re growing close, it doesn’t matter. You won’t change my mind on our approach simply by sharing news of House Cadence’s good fortunes. Not even if he’d already put a ring on their finger.”

“It would really be more their fortune to have me,” I said, surprising even myself.

Mother was stunned briefly, before she let out a laugh.

“Well, you’ve developed some your father’s absurd arrogance, at least. Saying things like that is bad enough, but what were you thinking, pretending to be an Emerald and trying to get into this council?”

“Pretending?” I tilted my head to the side. “You know I won my first round, right?”

“Yes, I did hear about that. It is impressive to handle an Emerald-level summon at your level, but I also heard about all the items you were carrying. You must have spent a fortune on that. Sheridan’s money, perhaps?”

I put my hand over my face in disbelief. She must have thought it was a sign of shame, because she went silent for a moment, looking almost apologetic when I finally heaved out a sigh and put my hand down.

“I made those items, Mom. Well, almost all of them. The void sword was from winning a duel in the Tortoise Spire, and I picked up Selys-Lyann in my Judgment. And, admittedly, the belt belonged to Keras, that was an actual gift. But the circlet, the necklace, the shield sigils, the mana batteries? The void emitters? Three of my other swords? I made those.”

Her eyes narrowed. “You’re serious.” “Oh, very serious.”

“How much did you spend on the crystals necessary to enchant—” I let out an audible groan. “Let me show you something.”

I stretched out my right hand, closed. Then, I flipped it over, showing a mana crystal.

“You were holding a crystal?” Mother asked. “I’m not sure I see what your point is.”

I tipped my hand over, dropping the crystal. Then, I flipped my hand over again. Before the first crystal had hit the ground, I had another one in my hand.

Mother blinked. “Where—” Another crystal dropped.

Another formed in my hand. This time, I went with a different mana type.

“I don’t—” Mother started.

I got fancy, pulling from one of my mana batteries, and made a fire crystal. I dropped it.

“Hold on, Corin, what are you—”

I started tossing mana crystals around the floor, one mana type at a time. Water, air, light, transference. I had threads connected to each battery, and the speed to pull out and shape a point or two of mana into a tiny crystal immediately.

“No, Mother. I didn’t have to spend money on buying a bunch of crystals. I can make as many as I need any time.”

She took a step forward, seeming genuinely shaken, and reached down to pick up a crystal. She turned it over in her fingers. “This is real.”

“It is. Not a strong one, obviously, but if you give me a minute instead of a half-second, I can make something much more impressive.”

“Miss Cadence,” Sera’s mother interrupted, “I believe we’re losing thethread of this conversation.”

Vek.

She knew.

I almost made my move then and there, but a glance from Sera and a near-imperceptible shake of her head warned me off.

I dispersed my threads from Sera’s mother instead. If she could sense them, maybe she could do something with them. I wasn’t taking that risk.

I knew Mother’s attunements — Elementalist and Swordmaster. Unless she had a third one, which was possible but unlikely, I didn’t think she had countermeasures for what I could do.

Sera’s mother…well, she’d been a Mender. But it had been a long time, and if Mother had a second attunement, there was a good chance that Anette Shard did, too.

“Of course.” Mother dropped the tiny mana crystal, as if losing interest, and turned back to me. “Your parlor trick is impressive, and I’d be happy to hear about how you’re doing it at some point. But a demonstration of prestidigitation does not make you more likely to be telling the truth about Saffron — and, even if you think you’re telling the truth, it doesn’t mean you’re correct. Do you have any idea how powerful a vae’kes is?”

“I’d like to think so, since I’ve gone two rounds with Saffron. I’d say he was about as strong as Mizuchi was the first time I fought her.”

We stared at each other for a minute.

“He’s not making it up,” Sera’s mother told her.

“For what it’s worth, I helped,” Sera said with a laugh. “It’s not like Corin and Patrick were there by themselves.”

“Ah,” Mother said, as if finally putting the pieces together. “Was this a venture with House Theas?”

“Some of them,” I told her, which was technically true, “and some of House Hartigan.”

“You shouldn’t take credit for the roles of your betters, Corin.” She shook her head. “You’ve gotten very good at bluffing, though. I’m impressed.”

“I’m not bluffing about my role in that fight. I wasn’t the strongest one there, but I was important.”

“I believe that you believe that.” She gave me a patronizing smile.

Matronizing? Is that a word?Anyway, I hated it.

“You should have watched the memory crystal,” I told her. “He offered you a crystal?” Miss Shard asked her.

“He did. But I wasn’t about to watch it on a roof, when he could have sabotaged it.” She shook her head. “Or someone else could have.”

Honestly, that degree of paranoia was something I could respect, at least. The first thing she’d said all day I could respect, really.

“I can make you another, if you’ll watch it in here. Miss Shard can watch over you.”

“That won’t be necessary,” Mother said. “We’re being too stuck on a single point. The fact of the matter is, even if I believed you about Saffron, it’s irrelevant. He is not the only corrupting force active in Valia. There are other vae’kes. And even if you somehow got rid of them, it doesn’t matter. Katashi isn’t going to change his mind — our government proved it couldn’t be trusted. And thus, with Tenjin absent, he will enforce change.”

“How convenient that Tenjin remains absent,” I told her. “Is that a part of your deal? Communicating to someone who can ensure that?”

Mother’s expression grew dark. “This conversation is over. Leave.”

“Nope.” I shook my head. “This isn’t just an angry talk, Mother. If Katashi keeps marching on Valia, we’re going to lose a lot of good people. Our friends, mentors, fellow students—”

“But not my family,” Mother said, shaking her head. “Because, you see— that was accounted for in the deal.” She took a step forward.

I stepped back. “Really, Mother? Selling out the nation to keep two children safe?”

“No,” she said. She exchanged a look with Anette. “All three. And if I back out…at a minimum, one of those children will be immediately forfeit.”

“We thought it might be something like that,” Sera said. “Did you, now?” Anette asked.

I gestured to Sera. “She did, really. Put together what would motivate Mother to make such a move. It makes sense, if there’s another person inplay that Katashi can essentially hold hostage.”

“It’s more than that, you know. Katashi is right about the corruption. And even without my involvement, he’s winning this war. You have to see that.”

“I believe that you believe that,” I riposted her phrase, “but you’re only seeing a fraction of the picture.”

I sent a flare of mana through my threads, making them glow blindingly bright.

Mother jolted in alarm, drawing her sword to cut the strings, but they were already vanishing before she finished her movement.

“What was that?” She pointed her sword at me.

“You should have asked about how I beat Dad,” I told her. “Now, if you press me, you’ll just have to learn for yourself.”

I turned my back on her to leave, which felt right. She’d done the same to me a long time before.

