CHAPTER XXVIII – UNLIKELY ALLIES

The air itself seemed to tremble as Emperor Edria Song stepped into the room. I felt my fists clenching as I watched her enter, my heart pounding in my chest.

She was a tall woman, nearly six feet in height, with her long black hair pulled back into a single tail. Rather than formal garb, she wore a suit of crimson-lacquered plate armor, the shoulderplates accented by massive solid crystals protruding from them and glowing with light.

Well, that’s one way to increase something’s enchantment capacity.

Looks incredibly cumbersome, but… Detect Aura.

Edria Song’s aura was nearly blinding — six overlapping Emerald shrouds, accented by a bright blue aura from the armor she wore…and something even more startling.

An aura of diamond-white from the curved sword on her hip.

I’d seen unusual auras on a few occasions, mostly from Keras and the silver sword that he wore.

Diamond-white was new, exciting, and a little terrifying.

But perhaps I should have expected that from Diamantine, one of the Six Sacred Swords. The aura color was more literal to the namesake than I would have guessed, but it made a degree of sense.

And now, at least, I knew that aura colors could have any number of meanings — including purely artificial ones. Sadly, I couldn’t get a close enough look at the sacred sword to know if it had a “make impressive colorful aura” function.

Then again, maybe that was for the best. If I saw Diamantine unsheathed, something had likely gone terribly wrong.

The emperor’s imposing presence had an effect on the crowd as a whole. Unlike when any other person had entered, I saw an entire segmentof the room — the Edrian delegation — fall to their knees in her presence.

And, perhaps more oddly, a wide variety of people from other nations did the same.

Was I supposed to do that? I frowned, not knowing the proper etiquette, but I was pretty sure I wouldn’t have even if I’d been expected to.

“You may rise, my children,” Edria Song’s voice called out across the room. “And be at ease. I come among you as one of the council today, not as your supreme ruler.”

I wasn’t sure that phrasing lent itself toward putting the audience “at ease,” but nevertheless, people rose and returned to their positions. The feeling of pressure in the room seemed to ease up, too. Still, all eyes were on her.

The emperor glanced across the room, as if taking in her own territory, and then gave a single nod to Hannah. “Shall we?”

Hannah took her arm and they began to cross the room toward the Edrian delegation.

She never looked my way, not as far as I could tell. She wasn’t paying me direct attention. Nevertheless, I felt like she was watching me. Purely paranoia, maybe, or perhaps I was tapping into a sense that I didn’t fully understand just yet.

In any case, it was an unsettling feeling.

She was the most powerful human on Kaldwyn — and I owed her a favor. I wasn’t looking forward to figuring out what that favor would be.

For the moment, I had a more immediate concern. When the emperor sat, the Dalenos Six rose.

Not to approach her.

No, my brief reprieve was over. The Dalenos Six moved to the center of the room to stand atop a platform for speakers. I had a good idea of what was coming next, and I felt my stomach sink at the knowledge of what I would have to do.

***The Dalenos Six were varied in their raiment, but each wore among the finest arms and equipment I had ever laid eyes on. There were so many Emerald-level auras among them that it was hard for me discern what was coming from each individual person and which ones simply came from their nation-beggaring attire.

The clear leader was a woman wearing long white robes not dissimilar in style from Mary’s, but much finer, with several layers of cloth embroidered with bright blue stitching. She wore a massive diadem of some kind of white metal that was adorned with dozens of blue stones, the largest of which was the size of a fist. The top of the diadem was designed to resemble a scale, one of the classical symbols of justice in many cultures. She had to walk perfectly straight to avoid one side or another of the scale tipping, which was probably a significant challenge, but I never saw either side dip as she approached the stage.

Len closed the doors to the room and approached. “The Emerald Council recognizes Hierophant Setsuna Saito, leader of the Dalenos Six and voice of the visage Katashi.”

Wasn’t the Hierophant a different Saito? Oh, right, that one died. Must be a family thing. Ah, nepotism.

I didn’t get much longer to think about it or analyze the group aroundher.

“Thank you for the introduction, Master of Ceremonies Len, of theHouse of Hastings.” The Hierophant didn’t bow her head as one might normally do to acknowledge someone, perhaps presuming it was unnecessary with her greater status…or maybe she just couldn’t with the gigantic hat she was wearing. She turned to address the crowd. “I also offer my thanks to the Emeralds of all nations who have come to attend this summit. The visages are pleased by each who has earned such status, and each nation shows their strength with the presence of their power at this gathering.”

Which was a very nice way to say “we have more Emeralds than you here, and therefore we’re stronger and the visages love us.” Ugh.

I resisted the urge to roll my eyes as she continued.

“This gathering is perhaps the most important of our lifetimes, for we are faced with unprecedented corruption in one nation among our number.” She turned toward the Valian gathering. “It pains me to even speak of such a horror, but I must. For many years, the government of Valia has been a puppet to our greatest enemy. And while each nation has long carried the responsibility for excising the corruption in their own ranks, recent events have proven this impossible. The visage Tenjin has been assaulted by his own people, his location cunningly hidden by the supporters of the Tyrant. And so, it is with a heavy heart that the visage Katashi has taken on a greatburden — he must purge this corruption and govern Valia in his sibling’s place.”

There was a murmur across the crowd. It was one thing to make these kinds of accusations privately, or even through usual indirect propaganda mediums. It was another to brazenly speak in such a way in front of a council of the strongest people on Valia.

She was inviting a challenge. I wasn’t the first to accept it.

Edria Song stood up from her own place, all of Edria’s delegation rising around her. “What is your evidence of this corruption?”

“The council recognizes Edria Song, Emperor of Edria,” Len chimed out.

The Hierophant turned toward Edria Song. “Those that can be easily shown? The absence Tenjin from his place, the sealing of the Serpent Spire. The lawlessness in Valia, the brewing of their civil war.”

“Visages have been known to disappear for a time.” Edria Song cast a glance toward the Caelford delegation, who remained silent, but stirred at the implication. “What evidence is there of the role of our great enemy in this?”

“Behold.” She clapped her hands.

One of the other Dalenos Six stepped forward, a large woman in heavy armor, then tapped a ring on his hand. It glowed for a moment—And then a body dropped unceremoniously to the ground at her feet.

I felt my heart hammer in my chest as I took in the sight of the corpse. I heard a few voices of outrage as the body fell on the stage — that was both insulting and a little gross — but the point was obvious.

The dead man wasn’t familiar to me, but he was shirtless, and everyone could see the strange black tattoo on his back. The mark that resembled a single dark crystal.

I’d always thought it was absurd that any organization of thieves or assassins would physically mark their members. It seemed like a huge security problem. Maybe they only marked their expendable members, to make it so that the people without marks could slip through security due to the absence of such a well-known mark?Either way, this tattoo’s implications were obvious.

“This man, Henry Wynam, was a member of the Valian council of Lords. And now, all can see that he is marked by the Son of the BlackStone.”

Not exactly the usual title, but the translation was clear enough.

The Emperor simply shrugged. “The distastefulness of dropping a body on the stage aside, how do we know that this tattoo is genuine, and not something that was marked on his skin after his death?”

“Your physicians are welcome to analyze the body at any time. We will also provide documents for your inspection. For now, we note your discomfort with this display, and the body will be removed.” She snapped her fingers and a pair of servants lifted the body, taking it off the stage. I wasn’t sure where they were bringing it, but I couldn’t focus on that when more important things were happening.

If everyone bought into this line of argument, the legitimacy of the claims, our nation would be in a bind.

Elora must have realized the same, of course. She exchanged whispers with a finely dressed blond man next to her, who stood up next.

“Hello!” the blond man called out, drawing all eyes. He stood like a duelist, a classical rapier on his left hip, a jaunty hat on his head in spite of being indoors, and jeweled rings — some enchanted, some not — on his gloved fingers.

Len turned to him. “The council recognizes Lord Alexander Theas, dual-attuned, semi-finalist of the Tournament of Sacred Swords.”

“Lord Theas,” the Hierophant said. “The visages acknowledge the standing of your house. You have something to say?”

“Absolutely.” He nodded fervently. “See, I’m a competitive person by nature, and if we’re comparing body counts…”

He took a few steps forward, then pressed on his own ring. Bodies fell to the ground in a circle around him.

“I won’t be easily matched.”

The playful way the statement was made was, of course, secondary to the revelations of the bodies themselves — all in similar states to the ones the Hierophant displayed.

Including, of course, the presence of obvious Blackstone tattoos on their backs.

Several people balked at the sight. At least one actually threw up — these corpses were closer to the crowd, after all. And while they had been preserved magically by whatever Alexander had been storing them in, fresh dead bodies were still bodies.

The Hierophant gazed at the bodies and frowned. “I fear I am uncertain about the purpose of this display, Lord Theas. You seek to admit that some among your people are complicit?”

“Oh, quite on the contrary.” He walked over to one of them, grimaced, then kicked the body over. As the body flopped from back to front, the implication was clearer.

This was a man with features more commonly associated with Dalenos, not Valia.

Obviously, people moved between nations, so physical ancestry wasn’t a reliable metric of allegiance. But Alexander Theas addressed that quickly. “I’m certain some of you recognize this gentleman, as he once stood among your own number.”

Someone let out a hiss. “That’s not possible.”

Len turned to the Dalenos Six. “The council recognizes Kagero Suzuki.”

The man hesitated, as if he hadn’t actually wished to speak, then clapped his hands. A shade version of him appeared next to Alexander Theas, who immediately gripped his sword, but the shade took no hostile action. It simply knelt by the body, grimaced, then vanished.

Kagero Suzuki turned, then whispered to the Hierophant.

She spoke again next. “We have been informed that this man went missing several years ago, during a meditative sojourn to the Unclaimed Lands after his retirement.”

Alexander Theas shrugged. “Well, he’s not missing now. Surprise. It turns out that Dalenos’ people are susceptible to corruption, too. Do we need another summit to talk about their corruption?”

“Your tone is not appreciated.” The Hierophant glared at him.

Alexander shrugged. “Neither is your invasion of our sovereign territory. I’d call that a draw, but I think we both know that tone is a little less important than your unwarranted movement of forces.”

“While we acknowledge that even former residents of Dalenos can fall to the tricks of the enemy, there is a clear distinction between your distasteful display and our own evidence. Your visage remains missing, and our visage speaks for the necessity of cleansing your land.”

I took a deep breath. That was, unfortunately, my cue.

I stood up. My friends stood alongside me, which I hadn’t expected, but the support was appreciated.

“About that,” I said, my throat feeling suddenly dry.

Len turned to me, looking almost as nervous as I felt. “The council recognizes Lord Corin Cadence, of the House of Cadence, Second Disciple to Keras Selyrian, and Arbiter of Katashi.”

The Hierophant turned to stare me down, then gestured.

My own mother stepped forward. “My son,” Mother said, “it brings me great joy to introduce you to my fellow members of the Dalenos Six. We have heard of your great dedication to our visage, Katashi, and that he has acknowledged you with his mark.”

“The council recognizes Lady Laura Lyran, of the House of Lyran and the House of Cadence, Dual Emerald, and member of the Dalenos Six.”

I nodded. “Thank you both for the introduction. I’ll get straight to the point. I’m Katashi’s Arbiter. I’ve heard not a single word from him in regards to verifying the necessity of this attack.”

One of the six stepped forward. A large man, bulky in a way that I didn’t usually see in Dalenos types, with massive biceps and a tremendous pole weapon of some kind on his back. “That speaks only to your lack of knowledge, Arbiter. And your inexperience, for raising such a trifling matter as if it is a pertinent issue.”

Len chimed out. “The council recognizes Lord Admiral Norima Tetsushi, Dual Emerald, and member of the Dalenos Six.”

I gave Norima a quick look up-and-down. “No, I think it’s pretty important. After all, he took over the Serpent Spire some time ago, and he spoke to me just outside it less than a year ago. With the visage’s resources, clearly he would be capable of sending such a message easily, either in- person or through any number of his servants. And so,” I turned to the Hierophant, “I dispute your core claim.”

“You will not speak to the Hierophant with such a tone,” Lord Norima responded. “It is beyond disrespectful.”

I stood back up to my full height. “You’ll forgive me if manners are not the greatest of my concerns while you rally armies against my homeland under a false pretext.”

“Ah,” the large man said, “and so you show your inexperience. For we are, in many respects, your best hope of surviving the days that come.”

“Do you mean that on a national scale, or was that just a personal threat?” I asked him.

He gave me what I might charitably call a mysterious smile. “Who can say?”

“Lord Admiral Norima, you should be aware that you are speaking not only to the Arbiter of Katashi, but the current lord of a dueling house,” Sera said patiently.

“The council recognizes Mistress Sera Cadence, of the House of Cadence, Ascended Attuned, Invoker of Seiryu.”

I heard a loud murmur at that claim, but I ignored it.

I finally processed the man’s name as Sera spoke it. I’d kind of missed the specifics during the introductions of the Dalenos Six — my mind was elsewhere — but I knew who Norima Tetsushi was by general reputation. A combined Wavewalker and Soulblade, he was another recent addition to the Dalenos Six, and had the reputation for being absolutely brutal in battle.

We had something in common, strangely enough. He was a rare case of a dual-attuned with two different sources of transference mana. That meant that, given his obvious and unconcealed Emerald aura, I couldn’t count on beating him in speed like I might with some other Emeralds. If anything, I would be at a rare speed disadvantage if it came to combat.

“Is that so?” Norima asked rhetorically. He stepped down from the platform where the rest of the Dalenos Six stood, approaching us directly. “I was under the impression the Head of House Cadence had fled, as a coward, in the aftermath of a duel. Who knew that a young boy had taken his place?”

Patrick stepped forward, hand going to the sword on his hip. “You will silence your insults or they will be silenced for you.”

Norima took a step forward, looming over Patrick. “Your move, then, retainer.”

Patrick met his eyes, bracing, and—“My apologies for my son and his retainer’s behavior,” Mother said, drawing our eyes as she approached as well. “They are new to these gatherings and out of their depth.”

“Not at all,” Norima said, stepping back. “The retainer shows appropriate deference to his master. Avenging an insult such as mine was the right course of action. Of course, if he had drawn, he would have died where he stood.”

“Of course,” Mother said. “Now, with that established, can we discuss why we are here?”

“Hmpf.” The massive man folded his arms. “Say what you wish to say, foreigner.”

“Corin,” Mother said, “Hierophant Saito has recognized your attunement, and she will tell you what your place will be in this.”

“Tell me?” I gave her an unimpressed look.

“We acknowledge that you were given the mark of Katashi,” the Hierophant said, remaining on the stage in the center of the room, “and thus, you are a representative of him here. This means that you are permitted to join my retinue, and you may be permitted to spread the word of Katashi’s grace in this difficult time.”

I froze up a bit.

This was not the kind of angle I had expected. Nor was I prepared for the crowd that was gathering around us, beginning to watch and murmur. The tension in the air was obvious.

Sera spoke quickly in the absence of my response. “We are, of course, grateful for your magnanimous offer, Hierophant Saito,” Sera said with another inclining of her head, “but with full respect to your station, the Arbiter is not a part of your hierarchy. He reports directly to Katashi himself.”

“The Arbiter is inexperienced and in need of guidance,” the Hierophant explained, her smile soft. “And I am Katashi’s voice.”

“In your nation, that may well be true,” I said, “but I was anointed by Katashi in Valia, not in Dalenos. While I am, of course, honored by your offer and would gladly listen to any advice you have to offer, I cannot join your retinue or speak at your command. It would not be appropriate as a Lord of Valia, or as Katashi’s voice within Valia itself.”

“A regrettable decision,” the Hierophant said. “If you have chosen not to believe that I hold Katashi’s authority here, perhaps a demonstration is in order?”

“Hierophant, please forgive my son’s words—”

“Enough.” The Hierophant raised a hand. “If Lord Cadence wishes to pretend at having Katashi’s authority here, he must deal with the consequences like any other.”

Mother tensed. Apparently, she had some idea of what was being threatened.

But she didn’t help further. She’d given me a few words, but that wasall.

In the end, she turned away. I was on my own.

“What consequences?” Sera asked. “This is an international gathering. Fighting is not permitted outside of duels. You have no authority to force him to do anything.”

“I would not violate the rules of this gathering with fighting, Miss Cadence. That would not be appropriate for one of my stature,” the Hierophant insisted. “But you are wrong about my authority. I will show you.”

I braced for whatever she was planning, a dozen combat plans in my mind. But she hit me at an angle I wasn’t expecting.

“If you believe you speak for Katashi, shall we test that? Come and see.”

Then, with Mother and the lord admiral at my sides, I approached the stage, leaving my friends behind.

A crowd formed around the stage as many stood to see what was happening, my friends among them. Sera reached for me before I stepped onto the platform, but I shook my head at her and took the final step alone.

I stood across from the Hierophant as she smiled beneficently and raised her hands toward the sky. “Corin Cadence, as the Hierophant of Dalenos and Voice of Katashi, I hereby strip you of your place as Arbiter. Behold and despair, for you are an Arbiter no longer.”

There was a burst of incandescence that flared from my right hand, visible in spite of the glove covering it. The crowd gasped. People reached for weapons. Sera, for once, had no idea what to say.

But in spite of being surprised by this move, it wasn’t as though I’d never considered the possibility.

And so, when my hand flashed, I understood exactly what was happening — and what was not.

I took my glove off, as if to inspect my loss, made a couple hasty mental moves, then stepped forward and slapped her across the face with it.

“Nah.”

She flinched, stepping back, a hand raised to her face in absolute disbelief. Not just at the audacity of being struck, no.

At the Arbiter symbol that shined Emerald on my hand.

“You have insulted me and my authority, and as is my place, I challenge you to a duel.”

“Th…that…” she sputtered.

“Enough. There will be no duel,” Norima said. “You have no standing for such a challenge. She is the Hierophant!”

I turned to him with a quizzical look. “Is she, though?” I snapped my fingers.

And, with a hint of mana flowing through my hand, the Hierophant mark on her forehead snapped right along with them.

I heard gasps of horror from the crowd. Several people stepped back.

Norima unslung his polearm. “What have you done, heretic?! How dare you assault the Hierophant?”

I turned to him. “I did no such thing. After all, the former Hierophant already tried to remove my attunement with her authority. You didn’t consider that assault, did you? My actions mirrored her own. I merely showed that my authority exceeded her own. I will, of course, still be happy to entertain the duel that I offered her.”

The former Hierophant’s hands balled into fists. “This…this is not over.”

“I wouldn’t imagine it is. Your attunement is, though. At least,” I offered her a glance, “until you offer to use any authority you retain to tell your forces to withdraw from Valia’s territory. If you do that, I’d think about returning it.”

“This is an outrage!” Norima reached for the cover over the top of his polearm, pulling on the string to unleash the blade. He raised the blade with terrifying speed, stepping forward to bring it down. I moved, but there were people pressing in all around me — it was too hard to dodge. I stepped right into someone, stumbling as the blade flashed down, and…“Weight of the World.”

Norima Tetsushi slammed into the ground in an instant, his knees audibly cracking as they slammed into stone. He let out a scream of agony, struggling against the force, but the pressure did not abate — it redoubled. His upper body fell forward until his forehead was touching the ground in a mockery of supplication toward a woman who strode forward in resplendent crimson armor, the crowd parting at her approach.

“You have raised your weapon without cause in a diplomatic gathering, Norima Tetsushi,” the Emperor of Edria proclaimed. “I have judged you guilty, and your sentence is execution.”

The dual-attuned sputtered, his Emerald aura flaring as he struggled against the power holding him, but he only managed to raise himself aninch.

Emperor Edria Song’s boot pushed him back to the ground as Hannah Meiyer approached, the Royal Executioner ready to carry out her emperor’s will.

“Emperor,” the former Hierophant came closer, bowing her own head in a gesture that seemed to surprise everyone, “I concede on his behalf. We will withdraw.”

“Will you, now?”

The Emperor of Edria turned to me.

“Out of respect for the master of the tower,” I said, “I will permit their withdrawal. In exchange for an appropriate wergild, of course — to be gifted by the Dalenos Six to the Emperor on my behalf, as thanks for her timely intercession in this matter.”

“Acceptable.” The Emperor nodded. The pressure of her technique vanished immediately, leaving Norima Tetsushi red-faced and breathing hard, but alive.

The remaining Dalenos Six helped drag him off the ground, then retreated as a group.

My mother gave me one final glance, seeming uncertain for the first time, before leaving the room.

But for once, my family wasn’t my main concern.

Emperor Edria Song turned and gave me a smile. “Lord Corin Cadence, Arbiter of Katashi, Wielder of Selys-Lyann, and Apprentice of Keras Selyrian.” She reached out with an arm. “Attend me.”

You know what? Why not?I took the emperor’s arm and, with our retinues following us, together we strode confidently out of the ballroom.

***There were advantages to escorting the most powerful human on the continent, even for someone who was as touch-averse as I was. For one thing, the attention the room was giving both of us would definitely give any actions I took at the council later on additional political weight. I was, apparently, important enough to warrant the emperor’s direct attention.

On the minus side?Gigantic shoulder crystals. They couldn’t have been comfortable for her, but they definitely were less comfortable for anyone else who wastrying to walk next to her. I had to keep my arm at a weird angle just to avoid jabbing myself on one of them.

Anyway, we left the room. Len silently stepped out of the room behind us, exchanging whispers with Sera, and then falling into step behind our group.

I saw her wave to someone else, who took her place at the door.

Thanks, I said silently. If things went badly with this meeting, I didn’t think my immediate friends alone would have the strength to save me.

I wasn’t at all confident Len could, either, in a physical sense — but as the Master of Ceremonies, she wasn’t the type of person that even the emperor would want to offend at this kind of gathering. It wouldn’t be polite.

I was surprised when we stopped only a dozen steps outside of the room. The emperor released my arm, turning to face me. “I have only just arrived. Where would be best to speak?”

I considered that. “My personal chambers have extra security wards, but going there could be seen as a significant statement. I’d recommend one of the dueling chambers. They’ve been recently upgraded with anti-divination measures and the political implications would be less inappropriate.”

“You’ve more awareness of your actions than I might have believed,” she said. “Taking the lord of House Cadence straight to a dueling chamber within minutes of my arrival is a wonderful headline for the papers. Lead the way.”

I took her to a familiar chamber. We all piled inside, then marked it occupied.

Len snapped her fingers after we came in, producing a variety of seats.

No one sat down.

“You may be seated,” Emperor Song said. “If there is to be any actual fighting in this room, it will be later.”

As if to address her point, the emperor took her own seat first. Others quickly followed. I was pointed to one directly across from her, where I sat, willing myself to look directly at her.

“So,” Emperor Edria Song began, “I believe I owe you some congratulations.”

I blinked at her. This was not how I imagined our conversation going.

Perhaps noting my confusion, she continued. “When I first heard about the potential threat that you posed, I was skeptical. It has been many yearssince anyone has managed to do me harm. I’m certain you are aware of the incident I speak of. I have grown much stronger since then. Imagine my surprise when dear Hannah told me that Selyrian had an apprentice, and that said apprentice was demonstrating abilities that were unusual.”

“I have been known to come up with a trick or two,” I offered with a weak smile.

“I see you have your master’s talent for understatement,” she observed. “Though he would have found a way to make it sound like he was bragging more, wouldn’t he? In truth, I was skeptical that Selyrian would take any apprentice at all, until I saw what you just did.” She leaned forward, eyes bright emerald. “And now, I believe that if anything, my consort understated your abilities. Tell me, Lord of House Cadence. You struck down the Hierophant’s attunement. Was that one of Selyrian’s secret techniques? And could you do the same to me?”

To my side, Sera tensed. I could see her wanting to say something, to warn me, but knowing that any action she took would potentially make things worse. I was being addressed directly and I needed to make my own response.

So, I kept it simple. Honest. The way Keras might have.

“No to the first. As for the second…probably, but I’m not sure.”

She watched me carefully for a moment, everything seeming to go still around us. Then, finally, she laughed.

“Wonderful.” She stretched out her arms. “Exactly what I would have hoped for. I won’t ask you to try it on me right now — it would make Hannah very upset if I were to ‘casually disregard my security and that of my nation to see how his technique works’ — but perhaps later, during a less important time.”

“We’ll have to see what the future brings,” I offered noncommittally.

“Yes, of course. Perhaps a more traditional sparring match later? You should be aware that I have a keen interest in seeing the styles of my fellow wielders.”

I glanced to Sera, noted a slight hint of a suggestion in her eyes, and turned back to the emperor with a nod. “Of course. It would be my great honor to do so, if time and circumstances permit.”

“Excellent. I shall look forward to it, provided we can find the time.

Now, we should talk about how you just declared war.” I blinked. “…Pardon?”

“Against the theocracy,” she said, as if it was obvious. “I was warned that you might not understand certain things, given your inexperience and apparent…seclusion?...for several years. That said, you’ve demonstrated at least a rudimentary understanding of how these gatherings work and the people in play, so I can only assume you understand that you cannot strip the attunement from a religious leader without extreme consequences.”

I nodded slowly. “I understand. But we are already at war with Dalenos, so…”

“Ah. You’re thinking of this on a national level. That’s understandable. What I mean is more personal. As Arbiter of Katashi, you were already a risk and threat to them. Now, you have seemingly demonstrated that you have greater favor from Katashi than his high priest, which is a tremendous statement. You must understand that they will do absolutely everything in their power to discredit and kill you now.”

“Is that really a change?” I asked.

“A valid question. If we assume you were never going to bow to their authority, the change is minimal — merely a difference in timetables and resources. You should not sleep in your own room tonight. You very likely should not sleep at all.”

“We could offer him protection,” Hannah said. “We’ve already been seen interceding once.”

“A fine suggestion,” Edria Song said, “assuming that Lord Cadence would like to owe us another favor?”

“I would be happy to owe you another favor,” I said, over Sera’s protesting looks, “but for something a little different, if you’d be willing to entertain it. That said, it’s a pretty big one, and I’ll understand if you refuse.”

“Oh? What sort of favor would the scion of House Cadence request from the Emperor of Edria?”

“I’m not overly worried about being assassinated for my move against the Dalenos Six. I will take steps to protect myself, of course, and we can discuss coordinating if you’d like. But there’s a greater issue that I truly do not believe I can resolve on my own. Virtually no one could.”

“Now you have my interest. What is this thing you speak of?”

“We’re in the opening moves of the war between Dalenos and Valia,” I told her. “And Katashi has yet to take the field himself, or so I understand.

But if he does, and chooses to fight directly…” I shook my head. “I would not be able to stop him from destroying cities in a single gesture.”

Edria Song’s eyes narrowed at me. She clearly understood what I was asking for. The rest of the room was silent from the audacity of my request, but she seemed to be actively considering her reply.

“You wish for me to take up arms against a visage on behalf of your nation.” It was not a question, but a statement.

“I do,” I told her.

“Impossible,” one of her entourage interjected. “Our emperor is the one who stands closest to the sky, but even she cannot be expected to tear down the heavens herself. The visages are unassailable. They cannot be fought. No more than one could fight an earthquake or a hurricane.”

Perfect.

I was worried that Edria Song wouldn’t give me an opening for my play, but I could always count on the fact that someone would call out my audacity.

“Actually, you’re wrong,” I said to him with a hint of a smile, then turned back to the emperor. “Because the day that I met him, Keras Selyrian made Katashi bleed. And, to repay the first favor that I owe you, I’d like to offer to show you how.”

I retrieved a memory crystal from my bag, lifting it between us.

The Emperor of Edria gazed at the crystal with abundant desire. “Show me everything.”

I handed the crystal straight to the emperor. She lifted the crystal, frowning briefly at it, and then handed it to the older advisor at her right. “This looks unusual. Inspect it.”

The man bowed his head deeply. “Of course, my liege.” “It’s just—” I started, but she raised a hand. I stopped.

The older man concentrated for a moment, then handed the crystal back to her. “The object is safe, my liege. It is an…unusual crystal, as you stated. It is a copy of an original crystal that does not contain the full contents.”

She raised an eyebrow at me. “Trying to give me a filtered version of events? You can speak now.”

I was prepared for this, at least, although I hadn’t expected her to notice right away. “Not precisely, your majesty. The original crystal that Keras gave me was a combined type, which showed two entirely separate scenes. Two  memories  from  different  occasions. The  first  portion,  which  isincluded in this copy, is a battle between Keras and Katashi. The second is simply Keras speaking to me, containing a personal message, as well as some sensitive information. My copy only includes the first portion.”

“Elder Li?” she prompted the older man.

“Lord Cadence’s explanation is consistent with my observations, my liege.” He bowed his head again. “I do not believe the core memories themselves to be altered. It’s a limited segment of the original. If I may, however, this does not mean that the original memories are necessarily real. Memories can be fabricated, and surely even if someone could fight a visage, we would have observed the results. Continents have been reshaped by less.”

“It happened within the Serpent Spire,” I explained. “During my Judgment. If you’d like the full context of that, I would consider that another favor, due to the private nature of much of what occurred there.”

“You are aware of what happened during your own Judgment?” the emperor asked. “Surely, you are aware that it is not permitted to restore those memories.”

“I am, your majesty. Mine were never lost.”

She frowned, eyes narrowing. “I do have questions, but they can wait. Provided it contains what you say,” she turned the crystal over in her hands, “I will accept this gift as being equal to the favor of access to our crystal shrine you were given.”

“Thank you, your majesty.” I nodded. “Would you be willing to entertain my request?”

“Let’s see what’s in this crystal of yours first. Voice activated?” I nodded. “Just say ‘view’.”

“View.” Her eyes closed.

We all just sort of…waited awkwardly. Elder Li glared at me. Several other members of her retinue did the same. Hannah, it seemed, was more restless than anything else, constantly shifting from foot to foot.

On my side of the room, Sera simply sat with an intense expression, her hands folded in her lap. There was no sign of the chill that usually affected her — she was clearly holding back any visible indications of it. Mara cradled her arm with the missing hand against her chest, half-hiding it.

Patrick looked deeply uncomfortable, which probably had to do with the whole heresy thing I was getting up to by even showing this. Also possiblywith the fact that we were making agreements with the nation we were raised to expect a conflict against.

In retrospect, maybe I should have been less comfortable, but it had been the sort of week where I had to just keep climbing or I would fall. Looking down certainly wouldn’t help.

When the emperor’s eyes fluttered open, she frowned for a moment, took a breath, then said…“View.”

Her eyes shut again.

I opened my mouth to say something, then shut it.

The second time she reopened her eyes, Hannah gently put a hand on her shoulder. “My liege, have you found the gift to your satisfaction?”

The emperor’s reply was more to me than to her. “This is real?” I nodded. “Absolutely real.”

“And you say that this happened in the Serpent Spire?”

I nodded. “It did. Not much after Tenjin’s disappearance.”

She seemed to take that in. Then, she put her hands together in front of her, holding the crystal. “I accept this gift.”

The gem shattered between her hands. I blinked. “That’s…”

“If you have other copies, you should destroy them. Who else has seen this?”

I fidgeted nervously. “Not many people, your majesty. I would prefer not to—”

“This is dangerous forbidden knowledge. You are aware what Wydd does to people with this sort of knowledge? To nations with this kind of knowledge?”

I gave her a chagrinned look, then said, “If it comes to that, I’d be willing to offer an extra crystal or two if you fight Wydd for us.”

The emperor looked at me for a moment, her expression neutral, and then, in a quiet voice, she said, “There are more crystals?”

“Not of Katashi. But there are some others you might be interested in — like, for example, the fight between Keras and Akadi. Another with a Child of the Tyrant. If you’re willing to fight for us?” I paused, looking to Mara, who nodded. “I might even let you borrow the box.”

***We continued the talk for a time, discussing and negotiating.

In the end, I didn’t get an answer out of her right away. In spite of the emperor’s obvious interest and unshakable authority, she wasn’t actually going to make a decision about something on the scale of fighting Katashi— or Wydd, or any other visage — on our behalf without actually consulting her advisors in private.

I left the meeting with one favor repaid and nothing lost but an expendable copy of half of a memory crystal. Not bad, all things considered.

But I really hoped she would take the deal.

In the meantime, I’d been so focused on that part of the conversation that I’d sort of forgotten the first thing that brought us to talk to her, but fortunately, others didn’t have that problem.

As we left the room, Len gestured for us to follow. “Follow me. We’re not going straight back to the audience chamber.”

“Why?” I asked.

“Because the emperor was correct in her assessment about reprisals by the Dalenos Six and we need to plan ahead.”

“Oh.” I blinked. “That.”

Len led us to our room, then instructed us to take our things. I shoved stuff into my dimensional bag, then we left. Len briskly led us on a route to the stairwell — then down, down, down. We hit the bottom floor, and she opened a hidden panel. The stairwell continued.

“…What’s this?” I asked.

“The monster wing,” Sera explained. “Will it be okay for us to visit without notice?”

“They’ll understand the circumstances. And given what you’ve been doing for their kind, I’m certain they’ll be pleased to offer you shelter.”

I glanced at Sera, wondering just how much I’d missed about her activities. She glanced at me and whispered, “Later.”

Almost as soon as we began to walk down the stairs, I felt a tingling on my arms. It wasn’t cold, precisely, but I felt certain I was being watched.

A few seconds later, I glanced backward and saw some kind of spectral apparition floating behind our group. The half-corporeal figure waved at me. I waved back uncertainly.

Patrick followed my gaze and let out a brief yelp of surprise. Mara caught him before he fell down the stairs.

“Nothing to worry about,” Len said. “Xavier is guarding the rear. One advantage of this place is that there are many monsters that don’t sleep at all— there’s always someone watching the way up. Often several someones.” “I feel a bit like we’re intruding,” Mara said.

“Not at all, dear,” the voice of a wizened old woman came from the wall on our right. “Please, do make yourself at home. It’s so rare that we have overnight guests!”

No spectre this time — no, the voice was seemingly coming from… I had to squint to see it.

An ordinary-sized spider?“Thank you, ma’am,” I replied. “We’re grateful for your hospitality, especially on such short notice.”

“Such a well-mannered young man!” the spider replied. “Be careful on the way down, the last step can be a bit tricky.”

The “last step” was, apparently, a gigantic hole leading over what appeared to be a vast endless void. It wasn’t too large for me to jump over, especially with magic, but Len simply teleported our whole group across before anyone could fall in.

“Another security measure,” Len explained. “Stops a direct charge down the stairs.”

“That’s great, but…” Patrick frowned at the gap. “Where does it go?”

“A place of power and danger,” Len said, “but I’ll need the tower master’s permission to say more.”

“I don’t suppose it’s the sort of power he used to make this place?” I asked.

Len gave me a smile. “Let me ask him about it. For now,” she knocked on a seemingly ordinary wall, “this is you.”

An illusion faded at her knock, revealing a seemingly ordinary door, similar to the ones in the tower above.

I had been expecting the hidden chamber to be small and rough. That was silly of me.

The room was twice the size of the one we’d been given before, and while it had a rougher stone aesthetic, the beds and furniture were even finer than the ones in the guest chambers above. More impressive than that, though, were the side rooms—One door led to a full training room with weights and a dueling ring. Another led to a large, multi-chamber restroom. Another was a full office,stocked with books. And the fourth…“You have hot springs down here?” Sera spun toward Len. “You’ve been holding out on me.”

“If you think this is impressive, you should see the waterfall suite. Bored monsters with powerful magic can make some very impressive homes. For now, unload your things and take it easy for a while. You’re going to want to be well-rested for whatever happens next.”

***We took the next several hours to try to relax, at least once I’d set up a bunch of redundant security measures for the room. Mara and Sera took the first shot at the hot springs, then we rotated.

The rest of the day was largely without incident, save when Len returned with a letter bearing the Edrian royal seal.

The contents were simple, if terrifying in their possible ramifications.

On behalf of the Empire of Edria, I, Edria Song, hereby accept your offer.

In exchange for access to the memories you have offered, the nation of Valia is henceforth under my protection.

The details will be related by my council to yours. Deliver the necessary memories within twelve hours.

-Emperor Edria SongI gulped, handed the letter to Sera, who read it, then passed it to the others.

“Well,” Sera said, “this war just got a lot more interesting.”

