CHAPTER XXXII – SHADES OF BETRAYAL

We appeared in the middle of one of the Valian bedrooms, right next to where a single person sat on a bed.

“Well, this is awkward.” Sylvia Sanctum blinked at us about a tenth of a second before Len hit her with a titanic glowing hammer.

The Citrine-level Enchanter was blasted straight off her bed into a stone wall — or, rather, into a gigantic shadowy hand that reached out to catch her and cushion the impact. An Emerald-green shield around Sylvia had fractured on impact, but not entirely shattered.

Prior to teleporting in, I might have questioned if we actually had the right person — there could have been more than one person who liked overcharging things into bombs — but the gigantic shadow hand kind of settled that issue.

That and the hugely conspicuous dark ritual with a gigantic black portal in the center of it sitting in the middle of the room. That was a little suspicious, too.

So, in conclusion, I was charging in a moment later, reaching out with an open hand to grab Sylvia’s while she recovered from the opening blow.

Accelerated Computation.

Analyze Attunement Composition—My mind screamed as strange red glyphs flashed across my senses.

Sylvia laughed. “Can’t think that trick would work on me, did you? Please, Corin. I was learning sub-glyphs when you were in a crib. That paltry trick won—”

A blast of light from Patrick’s sword cracked into her shields, but she simply watched it for a moment, then grabbed the beam out of the air.

I blinked, then she clicked her tongue. “Light magic? As it happens, that’s my specialty.”

The beam grew brighter in her grip, and she hurled it straight into my chest.

A few months ago, that beam of light would have pierced straight through my defenses. As it was, the slight adjustments I’d made to block Patrick’s attacks kicked in, and the beam simply cracked the shields, rather than destroying them outright.

“Not a bad defense.” Sylvia cracked her neck. “So much for the easy solution. Gentlemen?”

A pair of figures appeared in flanking positions around me. They weren’t shades, not exactly. Instead, they looked like humans that had been covered entirely with shadowy ink, then stretched out to impossible proportions, too tall, with arms too long. They didn’t quite look like the vek creatures that Keras had described. More like some kind of strange elementals, perhaps.

I didn’t get a chance to ask what they were. “Body of Dawn,” Patrick whispered.

Then there was a blur of impossibly fast motion and the strange creatures were collapsing into some sort of ink-like puddles and Bright Reflection was at Sylvia’s throat.

She blinked. Then, her eyes flicked down to the sword and she said, “Well, huh. You win, I guess? I offer my unconditional surrender.”

I…wasn’t quite sure what to say to that.

Fortunately, Len seemed a little more prepared, or at least better at dealing with such a strategy. “Then disable the spell effect that’s overcharging the tower immediately.”

“Oh, is that what you want? Shame.” She shrugged. “I can’t.”

Patrick glowered at her, pressing the edge of his sword harder against her neck. “You’re not in a negotiating position.”

“No, I mean I literally can’t. The ritual doesn’t have an end condition. But, if you accept my surrender and take me out of here, I’d be glad to explain to you all about it for next time.”

“Next time?” I asked. “How many spires are you planning to destroy?” “All of them, obviously.” She laughed, ignoring Patrick’s weapon toreach up and rub at her right ear. “Now, about that exit—”

Len smashed Sylvia in the head with her hammer before she could finish her sentence. The Enchanter hit the ground hard, head bleeding, hershields broken. Then, as she twitched, Len reached down and grabbed her. “Sleep.”

Sylvia slumped against the ground, unmoving. “That was a little…” Patrick’s eyes were wide.

“We don’t have time to debate and she wasn’t being helpful.” She clapped her hands. The woman vanished. “There. She’s imprisoned. If we have a spire tomorrow, I’ll have more questions, but for now…”

“Evacuate?” Patrick asked. “If she was telling the truth…”

“She was hiding something, but we didn’t have time to interrogate it out of her. She just touched her earring — she was probably sending a message for reinforcements. I’ve seen similar spell effects with earrings before. We need to get moving.”

“Moving where?” I asked.

“To find someone who can handle this.” Len waved at the ritual circle. “Master Constantine might have some insights, or perhaps we could go figure out if Farren has the tools to break a spell—”

Something clicked. “Mary. It’s been Mary. That’s why they tried to take her out in her final match. That’s probably who the main target was during the train bombing and ambush, too. She’s a Banishment specialist — the natural enemy of anyone who is pulling in power from another plane. If they planned this kind of maneuver from the start, they wanted her out of the way.”

“But if Mary is the target, then—”

Len glanced to the two of us. “The medical ward. We need to go now.” Then, with another snap, we were in the middle of a nightmare.

*** Mary Hawthorne was having a bad week.

When we found her, she was covered in bleeding wounds, a half-dozen of the medical staff bleeding on the ground around her — all of their faces marked with strange glyphs.

Vek taint, I realized. The markings of people who have been possessed. Either they were just taken over, or…Sylvia, or whoever the mastermind was, had them possessed ahead of time and ready to assassinate Mary when the final assault began.

Mary’s enchanted robes had been torn to ribbons, but an aura of pure white light was repelling the shades around her…at least, for the moment.

Even as we appeared, the aura was flickering, and Mary’s eyes were fluttering. She was barely holding onto consciousness, but she still managed to raise her bow and draw an arrow as we appeared. Fortunately, recognition struck her before she loosed the shot.

“Patrick!” She let out a relieved gasp. “You came! Rosie was worried about you.”

“I, uh…oh. Thanks?” He blushed brightly. “Look, we don’t have much time, these—”

“Ruinshades. I know.” As if to emphasize her point, she blasted one of the shades as it lunged out of a wall, trying to make it through her barrier as it flickered off for a moment. Her arrow pierced that one—Then the entire back wall of the room moved, an overwhelming wave of pitch-black of reaching down to envelope her.

Improved Haste.

I rushed behind her, swinging Selys-Lyann upward to meet the onrushing tide of dark—Selys-Lyann’s blade flared crystal-white and the blackness froze in mid- air. But I only had a moment before the origin of the attack made himself known.

“Very impressive work.” A black-robed figure stepped out from another room in the medical hall, tilting his pitch black-hat upward to look straight at us — and show a gleaming pitch-black mark across his forehead. “I can see why she thinks you worthy to take my place.”

“No, no. You can’t be here. You…you died.” Mary’s voice was a whimper. “Kuro.”

