CHAPTER XXXIV – RETREAT

It didn’t take long for me to make a basic capacity rune for every prime type that the tower was missing. The composite types would take longer, and I’d need to tap some help for that.

Or, I would have, if I was staying.

As soon as Len stirred, she assessed the situation, and then cast some diagnostic spells to check if there were any secondary rituals elsewhere in the spire. Which was good, because I hadn’t thought to check that.

Fortunately, while Kuro and Sanctum had planned for certain types of redundancies, that wasn’t one of them. I forced Kuro to tell us any further plan they had, and while a secondary ritual was on the list, he hadn’t activated it yet.

I noted where they had been storing the materials, then we sat down and forced Kuro to tell us any other agents of the Sun Eater he was aware of, both within the spire and otherwise.

After that, Len put him to sleep. With the ring still active to keep him from resisting, it seemed to keep hold this time.

“This won’t last forever,” Len told me. “The ring or the sleep spell. But I’ll find a place to store him.”

“St…store?” Mary asked. “What do you mean? Are you going to…” “I’m not going to kill him.” Len put a hand on her shoulder. “Thememory shrine has the ability to store people in crystals, similar to a stasis pool. We can hold him in that state until we have a solution.”

“Is there really a way to solve something like…” Patick gestured to the sleeping body.

“We won’t know until we experiment. But as a general rule, Patrick, that which is done with magic can be magically resolved. I can’t promise we’ll find a way to save him, but even just the ability to study someone in his state has tremendous value. And…if we just have to destroy theshade…” Len frowned. “At least, this time, you and Rose will have a chance to say goodbye.”

“…Oh.”

That was all Mary said. Then, she sat in a corner, curling up into a ball. With the attack resolved, Len rapidly contacted Warren Constantine,then transported him into the chamber to investigate the room himself. She filled him in on what had happened.

“You did good work,” he told us. “This was very nearly a disaster.” He glanced at the runes I’d been drawing on the wall, then back to me. “It seems I had a slight oversight, didn’t I?”

“Just a minor one. No one really thinks to add capacity runes of mana types they’re not using. And you’re not using classical enchantments much at this point, anyway.”

“Still, I should have considered it.” He nodded. “I owe you my gratitude. But for now, I’ll have to fix the rest. You need to be going.”

“Going?” I asked.

“While you’ve done a great thing here, and I will happily extoll your deeds to anyone who would listen, chaos creates opportunity. There are people in this place that will take any chance they can to make you disappear. It would be best if you disappear on your own first.”

“The Dalenos Six,” I realized. “You think they’re going to take advantage of this to try to attack me?”

“As it happens, they’re already forming up outside the spire. They pushed outside with force, and now they’re waiting just outside the door. Of course, I’m sure they’d say that they’re just taking precautions for their own defense, but no, it’s definitely an ambush waiting to happen.”

I frowned. “But if I stay in here, do you think they’d come back inside and attack?”

“As soon as they realize the assault is resolved, yes. And Len and I are both quite drained from the attack — as are many of those who stayed inside to defend. If they were to teleport straight to you, I doubt we could fend off such an assault.”

“What if I went to the emperor for help?” I asked.

“She’s gone. Vanished during the attack. I don’t know where, nor do I have the resources to look,” he explained. “It’s best you gather your things rapidly, then go meet with your friends. I will do my best to cover yourtracks, but you should expect to be followed. After what you did to the Hierophant, they’ll have murder on their minds.”

I gave him a somber nod. “Okay.”

I gave Mary a brief goodbye, then got ready to run. Patrick spent a few more moments with Mary, giving her a long hug and telling her to say goodbye to Vermillion, and assuring her that we’d all meet again.

It didn’t take long for Len to recover enough to teleport me to my room in the Underspire. Once there, I met up with Sera and Mara. They were both battered from their own defense against the shades below, but they’d managed to minimize the casualties among the monsters there by bringing them rapid warning and helping to coordinate the area’s defense.

Sera was looking better after releasing Seiryu’s invocation, but still unsteady. Mara looked…better than I’d seen her in a while, actually. The fighting seemed to do her some good.

With our team gathered, Len took us on one final teleport jump — out of the spire, now that the anti-teleportation defenses had been fixed through Warren re-establishing control over the tower.

We arrived in Pending. We wouldn’t stay long.

Elora Theas met us there along with Anabelle Farren.

“We need to get out of here,” I told them, summarizing the situation.

Farren nodded. “If you need to hide out for a while, I have the right place. And, now, finally…the right time.”

EPILOGUE – THE RIGHT TIMEThe old man stepped through edge of the sandstorm, his rotating shields of emerald-green light flickering as the sand whipped against them. As he approached the doors, he scanned each of them, knowing the symbols on all of them intimately.

They were some of the only things he remembered, now.

With a gesture, he tore the center door open, stepping through it into the next chamber.

A gigantic hourglass hovered in the center of the room, sand pouring upward from the bottom into the top. With a long-practiced gesture, he called a gleaming hand to tilt the hourglass to the side.

Distractions appeared around him. As the things manifested in the air, he snapped his fingers, hundreds of spears of density mana piercing them before they could finish materializing.

Then, he turned back to the hourglass, tilting it slightly in one direction, then the other, until he heard a “click”.

He didn’t bother to inspect anything further; he simply hurled another spear backward. The chamber’s guardian monster hadn’t even started forming yet, but it would. Or, rather, it would try to.

As the spear passed through the air, the guardian began to form — and the spear passed through the section where its eye should have been just as it solidified.

It died before it even had a chance to live.

Poetic, the old man considered. There were many like that, in the war, back when…He frowned.

When had that been?It didn’t matter. He had another war to finish, now. He strode to the next door, pulling it open.

The room ahead was filled with gigantic rotating gears. Distantly, he could hear the strokes of a pendulum swinging on a level high above.

Ah, it’s time for the end.

He cracked his neck as he stepped through the doorway, glancing upward.

Let’s begin again.

He pulled the tattered glove on his right hand tighter. He knew it was important, even if he could no longer remember his own name, or why he had it. All he knew was that the symbol on it was his — the symbol of his family, his people.

The seal of House Cadence.

THE ENDAPPENDIX I – ALTERNATE MAGIC SOURCESFrom Corin’s Notes, Shortly After Boarding the Train Toward theEmerald CouncilMy course on Alternate Magic Sources from the last semester gave me some additional insights into different areas of the world and how their magic works. This, combined with my books from Master Constantine, as well as Keras’ direct teachings, has allowed me to put together a better picture of how magic works outside of Kaldwyn, as well as how each of these seemingly distinct systems appear to be interrelated.

The foundational part, as far as I can tell, is certain structures in the body. Or, rather, sort of in the body, really kind of in a half-corporeal state between different parts of the “self,” which is complicated, but yeah. Starting there. Okay, let’s organize this.

Dianis Points. Those are probably the most important part of all of this. They’re places in the body (or self, technically) where magical structures can form into self-refilling containers. These containers are either called “Completed Dianis Points” or “Wellsprings” or “Vessels” or just “Mana Containers” or a bunch of other things depending on who you ask. A bunch of different types of magic involve making these containers and using them. Star veins. These are structures that connect the Dianis Points to each other, as well as to the other parts of the self. Their naming convention is based on the fact that with one of the oldest forms of pre-Attunement magic, dominion sorcery, people used to be able to “call” mana from the stars into their bodies, then pass it through these veins and out through aDianis Point. Then the mana could be “shaped”.

So, that’s dominion sorcery — calling mana from the stars, which are themselves a sort of intermediary that reaches into another plane of existence for power. Kind of mind-boggling. Anyway, we can’t do thatanymore. Reasons vague. Constantine seemed to think Selys might be responsible somehow? Unclear.

Okay, so, we’ve got our mana collection spots and the veins connecting them as concepts. Great. Lots of different ways to use them.

Essence sorcery is probably the oldest? Unsure. Anyway, that involves using a bunch of mana from the environment to form a container yourself, which somehow allows the container (once made) to refill itself from the environment. The problem? Not enough mana on Kaldwyn to do this effectively, at least in most locations. I’m also not sure our physiology supports it anymore. There are some second-hand reports of people figuring out how to make a Dianis Point the “old fashioned” way through essence sorcery style techniques inside of spires, but I couldn’t find any verification that it’s actually possible. If it is, it probably only works for pre-attuned, since our attunements appear to actively attempt to prevent this. Reasons unclear; still digging into the sub-glyphs.

Crystal marks. Also super old; they’re from shrines connected to things called Gateway Crystals. Gateway Crystals, as far as I can tell, are the primary sources of ambient mana for the world itself. Every continent has one of each type, supposedly, and they’re the reason we get all the types of mana we need occurring out in the wild. A crystal mark is a bond with a Gateway Crystal that makes sort of an artificial version of a Dianis Point in the body to use as a focus, then connects that new Dianis Point with a star. The end result is something like a mid-way between an essence sorcerer’s Dianis Points and the ability to use dominion sorcery, only you’re doing it with extra steps, since you have the crystal as an intermediary.

For reasons that remain unclear, this still works just fine for us, even if most pre-attunement magic doesn’t.

It’s also worth noting that the connection with the gateway crystal occurs on something called the “spirit layer” of self, which is the same thing that spirit arts use, and it’s also the same layer of self that Summoners use for their contracts. It’s also how spirit-bonding items like Selys-Lyann and Dawnbringer can connect to people. The most important part of this is that apparently you only have a limited number of “slots” for these kinds of connections, each of which corresponds to a completed Dianis Point (or their artificial equivalent). Basically, you can’t have more than seven spirit bonds, unless you figure out a way to double up (which the Summoner attunement automates, but Sera tells me that it has limits).

Digressing for a moment. Early attunements were clearly based on some combination of a completed Dianis Point (which draws from the environment’s mana) and a crystal mark (which creates an artificial container that can be used to facilitate sorcery). My best guess is that Selys (or the visages, or whoever was actually organizing this process) reverse engineered how crystal marks were made, but wanted to make something that would function without a connection to the stars, and thus, modified the design result to more closely resemble a conventional Dianis Point.

From there, attunements were clearly expanded as new features were added — Meltlake told us a long time ago that things like shrouds weren’t in first-generation attunements, but beyond that, I think it’s likely that they didn’t have multiple mana types, either. Based on looking at the sub-glyphs in my own attunements, my strong suspicion is that original attunements did virtually nothing other than giving someone a pool of regenerating mana of one type to work with, much like an essence sorcerer’s Dianis Points. From there, somewhere down the line, someone decided that wasn’t good enough and started adding features. And more features. And more features.

I strongly suspect this is why some attunements appear to be much more basic than others; the visages (or others) involved in developing the attunements diverged in terms of design philosophies, which is why you see some regional area with a bunch of attunements built specifically around shrouds, and others where you get more complex and esoteric functions… much like my own Enchanter attunement, or Sera’s Summoner attunement.

I’m not saying that other contract attunements were probably jealous knockoffs of the original Summoner attunement, but, uh, I might be implying it strongly.

Notably, this means that first-generation attunements were probably strictly inferior to ours in many respects, and probably inferior to essence sorcerer’s marks, since I don’t think they progressed organically in the same fashion that “true” completed Dianis Points did. (My books don’t say anything about it, but I can’t see how an artificial Dianis Point would progress without a system built in to enable it, and those systems were not, as far as I can tell, implemented until later. As for how essence sorcerer Dianis Points do have a system that allows them to grow…I honestly have no idea. It might have to do with whoever set up that system, and by that system, I mean, uh, the human body? Unclear.)Anyway, most of the power systems I’m aware of rely on completed Dianis Points (ordinary or artificial) and/or star veins as their principal means of operation and progression. There are, however, notable exceptions.

Firstly, spirit arts. I really, really want to learn about spirit arts, but most of the texts I’ve found — and Miss Haven’s lectures — have been infuriatingly vague. Forbidden knowledge, blah blah blah.

I figured out some things regardless, but without a first-hand source, it’s tough to verify.

So, basics. Spirit arts utilize things called dedications. Dedications are, as far as I can tell, taking a part of your spirit — which is apparently a real, physical thing that everyone has, just in a different universe that we’re sort of half-connected to by star veins — and turning that part of your spirit into a container. If this sounds a bit like making a Dianis Point out of your spirit, that’s because as far as I can tell, that’s exactly what it is. Spirit artists “dedicate” a portion of their spirit toward a specific invocation of the ancestor, which is, as far as I can tell, a very fancy way of saying that they make a spiritual Dianis Point that collects mana and allows it to be used (sometimes passively, sometimes manually) toward a specific function. Like, if someone says, “ancestor, make me strong” as their invocation, that invocation apparently carves out a chunk of your spirit toward the concept of being strong, and that part of your spirit then grants you power toward that purpose.

Intense. Also, apparently you can break your spirit if you invoke for something too complicated or powerful, so…that sounds bad? I don’t like that at all.

Anyway, this is all distinct from our spirit mana, but spirit mana can (to some degree) be used to emulate the effects of spirit arts. I’m trying to do this to simulate the stuff that Thorn did while he was controlling my body, but I’m not having a lot of luck so far. For what it’s worth, though, I think Thorn was faking the spirit arts himself — I don’t think the sword has dedications, and I certainly don’t. So, he knew how to convert spirit mana into the equivalent of certain dedication functions — which I suppose makes sense, given that Thorn is a fragment of the spirit of an evil conqueror god, or something — but I don’t understand enough about it to do the same.

Not yet. Working on it. On the list.

Oh, list. I miss when you were real.

Next, essence sorcerers on the continent of Dania have other ways of interacting with layers of self like the spirit layer that spirit arts deal with. My class didn’t go over these in any detail, but I did some of my own reading, and I’ve discovered some basics about some other types of things that they can do.

Rather than using dedications, essence sorcerers form spirit bonds, not dissimilar to my bond with Therin Thorn. Thing is, they seem to be able to bond to a bunch of other stuff aside from objects — most notably other people. This feels like an extension of what Summoners can do with monsters, but they can do it with other humans. Neat stuff, but I don’t have a clear method of reproducing it. Yet.

Aside from bonding to people, some powerful essence sorcerers can also bond to locations. This makes absolutely no sense to me, since locations don’t have spirits, at least as far as I’m aware. Clearly, I’m missing something, but it isn’t in any of my books. Researcher is being cagey again, so no luck on that, either.

Beyond the spirit layer, things get even foggier. There are other “layers of self” beyond the spirit, most notably the shade, which is involved in how the body recovers from injuries.

Essence sorcerers can get things called “shade weaves” that manipulate the baseline of what the body recovers to. This sounds absurdly dangerous, but incredible in terms of potential. For example, an essence sorcerer with a shade weave can modify their shade to have wings, which then become a part of your physical template, allowing for flight.

Thing is, there’s nothing that guarantees these wings actually work, or that they don’t, say, kill you by radically altering your physiology in a way that doesn’t work with the rest of your skeleton. So, experts only for this stuff. I’m interested in the potential here, but I wouldn’t get one unless it’s from someone who really knows what they’re doing.

There’s also a memory layer. No idea how that works. Something to do with powers based on your personal history? Neat concept, but I have no idea how it works.

Lastly, shal stuff. Right. Tyrenia. The shal. I have no idea on that one, either.

I’m going to have to do some research on this later. Let’s see how that works out this time around.

APPENDIX II – ATTUNEMENTS OFDALENOSFrom Corin’s Notes, Also Taken on the Train to the Emerald CouncilI haven’t spent quite as much time studying these as the Restricted Attunements, since they aren’t as applicable to my own life and goals. As such, the descriptions below don’t have the same degree of detail, nor have I fully identified the Signature Functions of each of the attunements.

Acolyte: Acolytes are flexible healers, treating injuries, poisons, and diseases with equal ease.

Compound Mana Type: BloodSignature Function — Bodily Purification: A function designed to simultaneously remove negative influences from the target’s body, such as poison and mental compulsions. This is reportedly a very useful tool when the specific details of a malady on a target can’t be easily identified; this function just tries to rapidly purge the body of outside influences in general, using water as a baseline and life to accelerate the function. I wouldn’t be surprised if some light mana is involved, too, but that isn’t one of the mana types they’re given directly.

Mana Types: Life (Primary), Water (Secondary), Perception (Tertiary)Champion: Champions have a combination of powerful defensive abilities and crowd control, using enhancement spells to bolster their own combat abilities and ice magic to freeze their foes in place.

Compound Mana Type: IceSignature Function 1 — Crystalize: A function for rapidly and reliably hardening their shroud into an ice-like crystalline state. This is a powerful defensive function, but it can also be used for shaping the shroud into weapons and similar tools.

Signature Function 2 — Mind of Ice: A function for stabilizing the user’s mental state, allowing for near- complete calm and extreme resilience to mental effects. This function has been noted to have the downside that while it is active, acquiring and responding to completely new information and situation changes can be more difficult.

Mana Types: Enhancement (Primary), Water (Secondary), Mental (Tertiary)Cloudcaller: Cloudcallers manipulate weather, calling rain and storms, and then alter these storms to cause specific magical effects.

Compound Mana Type: RainSignature Function 1 — Imbue Cloud: A function that imbues a conjured rain cloud with a spell, which then can rain down on a wide area. Spells imbued into clouds are much weaker than they would be as single- target spells, but have vast areas of effect. The critical downside is that these cannot distinguish between friend and foe. It's also noteworthy that the default mana types of the Cloudcaller are not particularlypotent for most forms of combat, and thus, this attunement is often much stronger when paired with other attunements or magic sources.

Mana Types: Water (Primary), Air (Secondary), Perception (Tertiary)Illusionist: While other attunements can make illusions, Illusionists are by far the most potent in terms of scale, capable of making large-scale illusions that create their own sounds and even influence the minds of potential victims.

Compound Mana Type: SightSignature Function 1 — Automate Illusion: I’m having a hard time confirming how this one works, but supposedly, it’s a function that allows the user to create an illusion that operates independently after being created. This sounds to me like a much more simplistic version of a simulacrum spell, but the idea that it might be achievable at even Quartz-level seems…difficult? I’m guessing that these illusions are short-lived and fragile, probably getting their adaptability from something like spirit mana (which isn’t one of the types granted by the attunement, but it’s plausible, since a lot of attunements have spirit- based functions without giving that type out). It’s also possible that they save in mana cost by not influencing all senses, but I haven’t been able to verify this.

Mana   Types:   Perception   (Primary),   Light(Secondary), Stone (Tertiary)Seer: Seers are capable of capable of divining potential futures, making them one of the most powerful sources of information gathering in existence.

Compound Mana Type: DestinySignature Function 1 — Future Sight: When I first heard about the ability to see the future, I was hugely excited about the prospect and wondered why more people didn’t invest heavily in figuring out how to do it. Then I met Anabelle Farren and said, “Ooh, it makes you craaaaazy. Right.” Admittedly, I’m still not sure that’s what’s going on with her, but that seems to be the clearest explanation available. I think there’s probably more than just Seer stuff at work with her, but…yeah. Anyway, reading on this indicates that most Seers don’t actually “see” the future, exactly, so much as that their attunement function is built for some sort of extremely complex computations where it extrapolates from available to data to attempt to ascertain the most likely events to follow. This takes tremendous power, and the larger an area (and time period) it has to simulate, the more expensive it is and the less reliable it gets. A Seer of my level might be able to see ahead a few seconds in a tower room, which is useful, but not overwhelming. When applied to a specific task, this is more useful; for example, using Future Sight when looking at a padlock with three numbers is an effective way of processing information that could potentially be gathered but not consciously known and crunching that data rapidly to determine the code. It’s important to note that Seers have massive blind spots in terms of information that is not accessible from their location or otherwise blocked. For example, a Seer attempting to see the future in a room with Keraswearing his mask will have a vision that entirely omits Keras, because the spell can’t account for him while the mask is on. Thus, the results will be completely invalid. This makes Seers very useful under specific controlled circumstances, but much less so in terms of, say, trying to figure out the best numbers to bet on in a divination-blocked casino. (So much for that plan…)Mana Types: Mental (Primary), Light (Secondary), Death (Tertiary)Soulblade: Soulblades bind monsters to their equipment with contracts, creating powerful magical items with unique abilities.

Compound Mana Type: SpiritSignature Function 1 — Contract: Like Summoners, Soulblades can create contract bonds with monsters.

Signature Function 2 — Infuse Item: When a Soulblade contracts a monster, they can then store that monster in an item to make it a magical item. I had a lot of misconceptions about this at first, but I think I’ve got it sorted at this point. Basically, what they’re actually doing is storing the monster in an extra dimensional space linked to the item as a focus. The monster stored inside is then used as a sort of battery, with mana from the monster drawn into the item to give it specific functions. This makes the monster linked to the item extremely vulnerable; if the item is destroyed, the extra dimensional space collapses and the monster is generally killed. This sounds like a really terrible attunement design and I’m pretty sure I could do better with it.

Signature Function 3 — Summon Monster: When a monster is infused in an item, it’s constantly drained of mana. As a result, summoning a monster out of the inside of the storage space requires a mana expenditure to move it out, as well as more mana to restore the monster’s mana to a point where it can fight. This is why summons for Soulblades cost so much more than Summoner spells — that, and my earliest examples of a Soulblade summons were from Derek, who required weeks to recharge his mana pool due to the mana levels in our area (which were high, but he’s an Emerald, and you don’t get Emerald-level mana saturation outside of spires and similar areas). Anyway, this also seems like a terrible design.

Mana Types:  Light  (Primary),  Life  (Secondary),Transference (Tertiary)Wavewalker: Wavewalkers can shape the forces of motion to push and pull opponents, walk on water, or even float in the air. I’ve seen very few of these, but I’ve heard a few stories about a powerful traveling Wavewalker that is said to resemble an ancient Artinian “ninja” in style. Whether this is purely an aesthetic choice or a realistic description of the Wavewalker’s abilities remains unknown to me.

Compound Mana Type: TidesSignature Function 1 — Surface Walk: I haven’t been able to get reliable information on how this works, but there are several stories of Wavewalkers walking on things that shouldn’t be walkable, like liquid and walls. My best guess is that this has something to do with gravity manipulation as a component of the attunement that utilizes Tides mana.

Mana Types: Water (Primary), Transference (Secondary), Perception (Tertiary)Wayfarer: Wayfarers are best known for their ability to send messages at nearly any distance, which they can do without parallel. They’re also unusual in that they get access to both an additional base mana type and an additional compound mana type immediately, similar to Elementalists, but more extreme. My suspicion is that this is possible because the mana types they have are so much more similar than those of Elementalists, creating few acclimation conflicts. In addition to the signature functions below, it’s also believed that there are higher-level functions specifically for increasing spell range and efficiency.

Compound Mana Type: Communication, TravelSignature Function 1 — Immediate Tertiary: Wayfarers gain access to their Tertiary mana type immediately.

Signature Function 2 — Immediate Secondary Compound Mana Type: As an even more impressive feature, Wayfarers also get access to Travel mana immediately, making them one of two attunements (the other being Summoners) that have relatively easy access to teleportation magic.

Mana Types: Air (Primary), Mental (Secondary), Transference (Tertiary)APPENDIX III – CHARACTERS AND TERMSFrom Corin’s notesHouse Cadence:Magnus Cadence — Head of House Cadence, father of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Presumably also the father of Sera Cadence.

Laura Lyran — Head of House Lyran, mother of Tristan and Corin Cadence. Emerald-level attuned with the Swordmaster and Elementalist attunements. Member of Valia’s Council of Lords.

Tristan Cadence — Elder son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Disappeared into the Serpent Tower during his Judgment. Presumed deceased.

Corin Cadence — Younger son of Magnus Cadence and Laura Lyran. Presumptive heir to both houses after Tristan’s disappearance. Earned an Enchanter attunement in the spire. Was given a mysterious new attunement by Katashi, the Visage of Valor.

Sera Cadence — Previously known as Sera Shard, Sera Cadence was legitimized by Magnus Cadence after passing her Attunement exam. She is presumed to be a bastard child of Magnus Cadence. After being legitimized, she is now a potential heir to the house. She’s my age and has a Summoner attunement.

Alaric Cadence — Legendary war hero of the Six Years War and famous Shaper.

University Staff:Chancellor Wallace — She was in charge of all university activities. Deceased after the battle with Mizuchi at the Winter Ball.

Lieutenant Commander Jack Bennet — Vice Chancellor, former military commander.

Professors:Professor Edlyn — Assisted with new student orientation.

Teaches Enchanting class.

Professor Ceridan — In charge of Tiger Class. Teaches Elementalists.

Professor Lyras Orden — In charge of Serpent Division and member of the Whispers, an organization that secretly serves the visages. Orden was involved with a conspiracy to kidnap the visage Tenjin, and she betrayed me during a spire expedition in the middle of the first year.

Professor Vellum — Teaches classes on permanent enchantments. Served as my mentor for most enchanting- related studies during the first year. She severely hurt herself rescuing me and other students from Mizuchi during the Winter Ball.

Professor Conway — Teaches Attunements class. Died fighting Mizuchi at the Winter Ball.

Lord Jonathan Teft — In charge of Hydra Class. Teaches dueling.

Doctor Tordrin — In charge of Phoenix Class.

Professor Meltlake — General Magic Theory class. Legendary Elementalist and Patrick’s personal mentor. A former member of House Hartigan, she is Derek Hartigan’s aunt. “Meltlake” is a title that replaced her last name after a famous duel where she supposedly set a lake on fire. Has a persistent leg injury and walks with a cane.

Professor Vanway — Teacher for an unknown class. Not one of my professors.

Sir Tanath — A member of the Soaring Wings, and a Summoner. One of Marissa’s teachers.

Students:Professor Vestan — Corin’s Introductory Runes teacher.

Professor Zou — A guest professor.

Professor Saito — Attunement Optimization teacher.

Professor Wydran — Intermediate Enchanting teacher. Wore a strange black uniform. Transferred me into a more advanced class.

Professor de Remy — Advanced Enchanting teacher for third-year students.

Professor Ezran — My Intermediate Mana Manipulation teacher.

Lady Anette Haven — My Alternate Magic Sources teacher.

Patrick Wayland — One of my childhood friends, now my first retainer. An Elementalist and magical weapon enthusiast. Jin Dalen — A mysterious foreign student from East Edria with a Sunstone-level Mesmer attunement. His family is sworn to House Dalen, the former ruling house of East Edria from the days before it was under Edrian rule. He was badly injured after fighting against me in the Serpent Spire, but escaped using my return bell. We ran into each other again after that, but things have been strained.

Marissa Callahan — One of my classmates. Usually called “Mara” by her friends, but I’m still getting used to the nickname. She’s a Guardian and something of a prodigy for our year. In the second half of the school year, she began training with Keras Selyrian to learn his combat techniques.

Roland Royce — One of Sera’s friends and a former friend of Tristan’s. Diviner. I think Sera may be trying to get him as a retainer.

Cecily Lambert — The younger sister of Yunika Lambert. One of my closest childhood companions. Things between us are a little awkward, since Tristan was engaged to Yunika before he disappeared, and there was an implication that Cecily and I might eventually get married, too. And then therewas the training with father…anyway, things are strained, but we’re talking again.

Curtis Maddock — Dorm chief for my dorm. I, uh, probably should have talked to him more. He has two attunements on the same arm.

Lisa Stone — Former classmate from my childhood.

Jordan Jaldin — A second-year student that supervised one of the teams for the first year’s final exams.

Katherine Winters — A second-year student that supervised my team’s first year’s final exams. Goes by Kathy.

Rupert Kent — Elementalist. Noble who was part of a family that tried to “adopt” Mara from her family when she was younger. Total creep.

Kyra Dyson — Shadow. One of the better duelists in our first-year class. A member of Roland’s testing team.

Loria Marshall — Elementalist and close friend of Kyra’s. Another member of Roland’s team.

Desmond Vyers — Shaper. One of the best duelists of our first-year class. A member of Roland’s team.

Holly — Third-year Enchanting student.

Gregori — Third-year Enchanting student.

Tylan — Third-year Enchanting student.

Lute — Another student of the non-human variety, although probably slightly less murderous. Unclear, to be honest. Swordsman. Possibly a literal sword? Not really sure, but he’s seemingly related to Keras somehow, which raises all sorts of questions. Suspect he’s extremely powerful, probably in the Emerald range. Uses strange sword techniques that may involve transcendence mana.

Vernon Tenson — Third-year student with dual attunements (Legionnaire and Guardian). Leader of Team Goddess’ Grace for dueling class.

Sandra Stone — Third-year student with a Sunstone-level Summoner attunement. Member of Team Goddess’ Grace.

Micha Sawyer — Third-year student. Diviner with an enhancement mana specialization. Member of Team Goddess’ Grace.

Jeremy Jaldin — Third-year student. Older brother of Jordan Jaldin. Shaper with a near-Citrine mana pool. Leader of Team Bloodline.

Tyler Sanctum — Third-year student. Sunstone-level Spellsinger and specialist in sonic attacks. Member of Team Bloodline.

Matthew Coin — Third-year student. Sunstone-level Elementalist with an air-specialized mark. Member of Team Bloodline.

Mary Hawthorne — Team leader of Team Skyseeker, one of the most powerful dueling teams of our year. Abjurer-style banishment abilities using a bow and arrow. Saw her during the fight with Mizuchi last year, but didn’t know her at the time.

Vermillion Rose — A member of Mary’s dueling team. Uses sword-enhancement magic, similar to a Swordmaster attunement and with some resemblance to Keras’ Pale Crescent.

Kuro Nightshade — A member of Team Skyseeker with a “classic wizard” motif. Extremely broad skill set. Probably an Enchanter, Architect, or maybe a Conjurer…unless he has a foreign skill set. It’s possible their whole team is using foreign magic, given some of their strange abilities.

The Emerald Council — Staff:Warren Constantine — Master of the Sorcerer’s Spire, a human-made attempt to replicate the Soaring Spires, and primary host of the Emerald Council. A former Enchanter and Arbiter, Warren is an eccentric who, fearing some of the secrets he discovered deep within the sub-glyphs of his attunements, deliberately destroyed them. Now, he relies on older forms of power tied to the gateway crystals, but his overuse of mental-related abilities has caused his mental health to gradually decline. He was kind to me when we met, offering me advice and books from his earlier days, andwarned me about activating the functions beyond Citrine- level in my attunements. I, of course, did it anyway.

Len Hastings — A magically-made copy of Lydia Hastings, a close friend of Keras from his homeland. Len was created as a part of one of the challenges Keras faced in the Spirit Gateway Shrine, and when he reached the crystal, he used his boon to preserve Len’s life rather than ask for what he was originally planning on. As a result, Len survived the test rather than being dismissed like a normal summoned being, and began to live a life of her own. She met us in Caelford last year, then brought us to the Sorcerer’s Spire, where she and Warren are harboring a number of summoned monsters that appear to have escaped or been freed from their service to live out their own lives. As a copy of one of Keras’ companions, she is a formidable sorcerer, though I have primarily seen her use teleportation.

The Emerald Council — Valian Representatives:Elora Theas — Heir to House Theas, an ancient noble house. She’s an Emerald-level Summoner, Derek’s former paramour, and has a contract with the God Phoenix. She’s also heavily involved with the same conspiracy that my brother is, but I don’t know what her real goals are.

Alexander Theas — Elora’s cousin and a member of House Theas that fought in the Tournament of the Sacred Sword when Keras was present nine years ago. He was already formidable back then and likely is even stronger now.

Sylvia Sanctum — An Enchanter and older sister to Tyler Sanctum, one of the students from Teft’s dueling class.

The Emerald Council – Dalen Representatives:Lord Admiral Norima — One of the Dalenos Six. A massive physical powerhouse, Lord Admiral Norima is a combination of a Wavewalker and Soulblade, with compounding transference mana for incredible speed.

Hierophant Setsuna Saito — One of the Dalenos Six and bearer of the Hierophant attunement. She is the high priest of Katashi.

Suzuki — One of the Dalenos Six. A Conjurer/Summoner, allowing him massive flexibility for monster summoning, teleportation, and conjuration powers.

Takeshi Kurita — One of the Dalenos Six during the time of the Tournament of the Sacred Sword and a powerful multi- attuned with two enhancement-focused attunements. Apparently, no longer a member of the Dalenos Six.

Takeshi Tetsurin — Kurita’s son, aspiring to follow in his footsteps, and also carrying two attunements.

The Emerald Council – Caelish Representatives:Anabelle Farren — As previously noted, the owner of Farren Labs and single most important person in the industry of creating artificial attunements. Responsible for the creation of the prototype “god beast attunements” that were involved in the series of events I stumbled upon at the Serpent Spire. Speaks as if she sees the past and future concurrently with the present or something, potentially because of some kind of experimental attunement, or possibly indicating an inhuman- nature.

Nakht — Farren’s taciturn bodyguard, Nakht possesses a strange, terrifying flickering aura unlike anything I’ve seen anywhere else.

Kamaria Clarent — A powerful Forgemaster who fights in potent enchanted armor. She appeared in the Tournament of the Sacred Sword and was one of the few potential targets of the Sun Eater’s harbinger, Akadi, that actually survived his machinations.

The Emerald Council – Edrian Representatives:Emperor Edria Song — The former crown princess of Edria, now ascended to their throne as emperor, Edria Song was marked at birth as the chosen of the visages with sixattunements. When she made an appearance at the Tournament of the Sacred Sword a decade ago to claim her father’s sword, Diamantine, she was able to fight against several Citrine and Emerald opponents in a demonstration without a single scratch. She was reported to have six Emerald-level attunements at that time and is likely the single most powerful human on Kaldwyn, if not the planet as a whole.

Hannah Meiyer — The Royal Executioner, an Emerald- Level Executioner and member of the Edrian royal guard.

Other People:Lars Mantrake — Shopkeeper for the Climber’s Court, a magic item shop. As a former climber, he has many stories of the spires, almost half of which are probably true. He told me a bit about Selys-Lyann, my sword, and I think he may have seen it in the past.

Keras Selyrian — Mysterious foreign swordsman that I first encountered during my Judgment. Keras was my mentor and in swordplay and protector for much of my time at Lorian Heights. He rescued me from Saffron, a Child of the Tyrant in Gold, during the second half of the school year. After rescuing Patrick from the Sons of Valia in our second year, Keras was reunited with a friend from his past — the legendary sorceress Wrynn Jaden — and left to confront the Sun Eater, a potential world-ending threat.

Echion — He’s a kid with an experimental artificial attunement that I rescued during my Judgment. His strange attunement seems to be based on god beasts, rather than conventional attunements. I plan to study that style of thing eventually.

Vera Corrington — Tower explorer that I first encountered during my Judgment. I broke her out of a cell, then she stabbed me in the back. Eventually, I found her and escorted her back to the tower, where she turned herself in to Katashito help prevent collateral damage from some of her actions related to ambushing Tenjin, one of the visages.

Aloras Corrington — Automotive engineer. Vera’s brother. Derek Hartigan — Heir to House Hartigan, an ancient noble house. Has an Emerald-level Soulblade attunement. We spent the second half of the school year living at his place.

Tavare — Derek’s Summoned blade elemental. Refers to themself as Radiance, which is kind of weird.

Delsys — Derek’s Summoned flame/wind elemental. Sheridan Theas — Elora Theas’ sibling, and a follower of Wydd. Wields the restricted Necromancer attunement, but specializes in healing. Derek usually refers to them by the nickname “Deni”. May or may not be flirting with me. Aaaaaah.

Vanniv — A summoned karvensi. Both Elora and Sera have contracts with Vanniv. Somehow fashionable, even when shirtless.

Researcher — A knowledge elemental that resides in the restricted section of the Divinatory.

Yunika Lambert — Cecily Lambert’s older sister, and Tristan’s former fiancée. Still not sure on her angle on all the politics going on.

Meredith Hawkins — A historical figure who supposedly escaped one of the spires after several years of being trapped inside. Commonly believed to be a con artist.

Johannes Edington — An academic who attempted to enter a Judgment and stay inside as long as possible in order to preserve memories of what the rooms looked like. Emerged a few months later and published a paper on his findings.

Nakht — A worker for Anabelle Farren at Farren Labs with a strange, shifting aura.

Kahi Zephyr — A guide for Farren Labs.

Ashon — A researcher for Farren Labs with a bit too much interest in my Arbiter attunement.

Archduke Verena — The leader of an Edrian noble house many years in the past. He is seen, along with other members of his family, in a constructed scenario inside the Tiger Spire.

Dalen Mitsurugi — An ancestor of Jin Dalen in a constructed scenario inside the Tiger Spire. He was a wielder of Soulbrand, the Sacred Sword of Fire. Note that he uses the Dalenos naming style, meaning “Dalen” is his surname, not his personal name. I wonder if Jin prefers that and simply used our naming style while visiting Valia?Jerome Schmidt — An Edrian noble and son of Kaspar Schmidt, who fought my great grandfather in the Six Years War. I studied his fighting style in my childhood.

Emma Verena — One of Archduke Verena’s daughters in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Emery Verena — One of Archduke Verena’s daughters in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire. Sera formed a contract with her and helped her escape the spire as a summoned monster, after which she stayed at Lorian Heights with the intention of becoming a student in the next school year.

Anthony — A manservant for House Verena in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Lady Nora Haven — A member of House Haven in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Caelyssa Ves — Goes by “Lys”. A retainer of House Haven in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Constant Beaufort — A member of House Beaufort in a part of the fourth-floor test in the Tiger Spire.

Spirit Gateway Crystal — A sentient crystal in the Unclaimed Lands that created challenges for Keras when he entered a shrine.

Transcendence Gateway Crystal — A sentient crystal in the Unclaimed Lands that offers challenges for those that enter the crystal’s home.

Roy — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway Crystal’s challenges.

Elina Maryn — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence Gateway Crystal’s challenges.

Kester Boyd — An entrant who once faced the Transcendence  Gateway  Crystal’s  challenges.  ApparentlyVisages:worked with Lars Mantrake.

Katashi — Visage of Valor, patron Visage of Dalenos, where he is a central figure in their government.

Melkyr — Visage of Resilience, patron Visage of Edria.

Ferras — Visage of Creation, patron Visage of Caelford. Tenjin — Visage of Inspiration, patron Visage of Valia. Currently missing.

Kerivas — Visage of Law, second patron Visage of Edria. Wydd	—	Visage	of	Forbidden	Knowledge.	Location unknown. Often depicted as a trickster or shapeshifter.

God Beasts:Genbu, the God Tortoise — God Beast of Dalenos.

Seiryu, the God Serpent — God Beast of Valia.

Orochi, the God Hydra — God Beast of Edria.

Byakko, the God Tiger — God Beast of Caelford.

Suzaku, the God Phoenix — God Beast of East Edria.

Arachne, the God Spider — God Beast of (????)God Beast Children:Mizuchi — Deadly serpent, called “Hero’s End”. Child of Seiryu. Believed to be virtually invulnerable.

Satsuki — A descendant of Seiryu, the God Serpent. Apparently she’s a “murder serpent”, which is just as comforting as it sounds. She’s also enrolled as a student. Seems to like me, which is, uh, absolutely horrifying? Why, universe? Why?Other Powers:The Tyrant in Gold — A divine being that is antithetical to Selys, and believed to be comparable to her in power. Thescriptures teach that he is in control of the entire world outside of Kaldwyn.

Saffron — A Child of the Tyrant in Gold. Tremendously powerful, most likely on a similar level to Mizuchi.

Major Nations:Valia — Nation on the eastern coast of the continent of Kaldwyn. Home to the Serpent Tower and the Lorian Heights Academy.

Edria — Imperialistic southern nation. Conquered Kelridge during the Six Years War and nearly conquered Valia as well.

Caelford — Technologically advanced nation on the western coast of the continent. Allied with Valia.

Dalenos — Theocracy; covers most of the northern side of the continent.

Kelridge — A territory that was a part of Dalenos prior to the Six Years War. Conquered by Edria and now known as East Edria.

Days of the Week:Tashday 	Kyrsday 	Fersday 	Tensday 	VasdayWyddsdayACKNOWLEDGEMENTSFirst off, thanks to everyone for reading this book! I appreciate you.

This book has been a strange ride, and I appreciate the patience of readers waiting for it.

Next, I’d like to thank my literary agent, Paul Lucas, and his assistant, Eloy Bleifuss, for their constant help throughout the process of getting these books done.

Thanks to the team at Podium for all their assistance with the audio side of this series, especially Victoria Gerken for really going the extra mile with some of my requests.

I’d also like to thank Nick Podehl, my amazing narrator, who has served as one of my primary collaborators since my very first book. Similarly, I’dlike to thank Daniel Kamarudin, my cover artist, who has handled every cover for both this series and the others I’ve written in this universe to-date, as well the awesome art for the Kickstarter premium hardcover versions of my books.

Thanks to Shawn T. King for making the now-iconic graphic design style that I’ve used since Book 2 of this series, as well as a tremendous amount of awesome work on the Kickstarter hardcovers.

Thanks to all my beta readers, including: Tobias Begley, Baird Bedient, John Bierce, Eli Brandt, Carly D., Doug Driggs, Connor Estes, Yvonne Etzkorn, Krista K., Markus Kemppainen, Tyler L. Kowalchuk, Sarah Lin, Jonah L. L., Anthony Mulder, Ronnie Nichols, Jordan Nohle, Embyr P.,Andrew Ritchie, Rebecca Reeves, Bruce Rowe, Christine Rowe, Lorne Ryburn, Will Wight, Brandon Yee.

The title for this one is a reference to a quote by Francis Bacon, “The master of superstition is the people; and in all superstition wise men follow fools; and arguments are fitted to practice, in a reversed order.”

SIMILAR WORKSI’m often asked for recommendations for books similar to Sufficiently Advanced Magic.

If you’re looking for another magical school story with a protagonist that does a lot of research into how magic works, I would recommend the web serial Mother of Learning.

If you’re looking for another book with a lot of anime-flavored combat scenes, I’d recommend the Cradle series by Will Wight and the web serial Forge of Destiny.

If you’re looking for more books with strong RPG inspiration, there are a couple up-and-coming genre labels to look for.

“LitRPGs” tend to literally take place in a video game, or in a world that has overt RPG mechanics, such as character classes and levels. Someclassic examples include the .Hack series and Dream Park by Larry Niven and Steven Barnes. If you’re looking for one of these, I’d recommend Ascend Online by Luke Chmilenko and the web serial Delve.

There are a number of places to find great LitRPG recommendations.

For example, there’s a large LitRPG Facebook group that can be found here. There is also a LitRPG subreddit, which can be found here.

“GameLit” is a slightly broader genre that includes game-inspired fiction in general. Ready Player One by Ernest Cline would be a good example of this.

If you’re looking for an online community for more GameLit recommendations, you may want to look at GameLit Society group. There’s also a more general GameLit group. There’s also a GameLit subreddit, which can be found here.

CLOSING NOTES FROM THE AUTHORThanks for reading this, everyone. I’ve historically said that this series will be either six or seven books. As I worked through the beta process on this one, I went back and forth on that subject repeatedly, and ultimately decided there’s still too much story to tell to resolve it in one more book. And so, we’re likely going to be seeing two books after this one. Book 6 is going to be a bit shorter than usual, however, as it is largely about tying up loose ends and preparing to lead into the finale.

As always, if you enjoyed this book, please consider rating and reviewing it. Arcane Ascension is self-published and relies heavily on ratings and reviews.

If you’re looking for something else to read in the meantime, my most recent series, The Lost Edge, launched last year. The first book, Edge of the Woods, is out now. The second book should be out soon and a preview chapter is included below. It’s an out-of-context scene from a little after the beginning of the book, since I prefer to show previews that focus on action over plot spoilers.

For those of you waiting for more Weapons & Wielders and War ofBroken Mirrors content, those are still planned, but will take a little longer.

Thanks again for reading!-Andrew