CHAPTER XXXI – SHADES OF THE PRESENT

“Oh, no?” Sera asked. “What’s going on, Corin?” “Hold on.”

I rushed to the wall, immediately pulling an etching rod out of my bag and pushing it against the stone.

It bounced harmlessly off a barrier. “Knew it couldn’t be that simple.”

“Corin?” Sera asked again. “What’s happening? What were you doing?” “Trying to draw capacity runes, but it’s too late for that. This segment ofthe spire has a barrier on the walls to prevent modifications now. Might be the whole building. Farren, do you know where we need to go?”

Farren withered at my question. “I don’t even know where we are.” I raised an eyebrow at that. Sera snapped her fingers at me.

“Corin. Please. Clarity would be nice.”

I took a breath. “Sorry, sorry. We need to move fast. You know how an item with too much mana inside it explodes?”

“Yeah, sure. Like you did with Jin’s shield sigil, back in the Serpent Spire.”

“Well, there isn’t really a size limit on something that’s considered an ‘item’ for enchanting. Most enchantments for buildings tend to be room- specific, but that’s a limitation on the zone the enchantment covers. Building-wide enchantments are possible, and this tower has several of them. Including, uh, possibly some new ones.”

Sera’s eyes widened. “You’re saying that someone is trying to overcharge the entire building?”

“No, no,” Farren cut in. “He hasn’t said that. You did. I’m even pretty confident that was in the past.”

Sera ignored her. “So, what, they just…erased some capacity runes? Or added new recharge runes?”

I shook my head. “That might work, but it would take such a ludicrous amount of mana to overcharge a building that even with Emerald-level recharge runes, it would take…months, probably? Someone would notice. Even if the people in here didn’t, some elemental would probably show up to collect if mana was accumulating for months.”

“Then…how?” Sera asked.

I turned to Farren. “What’s this place actually on top of?”

“Why would I know that?” Farren frowned. “I mean, it’s the memory gateway crystal, but that doesn’t seem like something I should know. Does it?”

“The memory crystal,” I muttered. “Hm…probably not? A gateway crystal probably does have enough power to overcharge a structure like this, but I don’t see the crystal agreeing to that. Memory should be more related to preserving things as they are. Blowing up a massive building seems completely antithetical to that.”

“We’ve been down there,” Mara chimed in, surprising me. “Patrick and I, that is. But it’s not a standard shrine. You take the tests in parts. You have to do some, then come back later and repeat the same challenges with some changes. Like, one of the bridges will be invisible, and you have to remember where it was.”

“Seems thematically appropriate. Did you reach the crystal?” I asked. “Not yet. But Len said it’s one of the friendly ones, and I agree with thatread. It’s part of what’s keeping the monsters here safe from the visages.” I frowned. “Then why…”

“Maybe we’re looking at this the wrong way,” Sera noted. “If there’s a defensive crystal under here, maybe it isn’t the source of the power. Maybe it’s the target.”

“Oh. Oh.” I took a breath. “We just fell for one of the oldest tricks in the book, didn’t we?”

Sera must have followed my logic, or come to a similar conclusion. “Why would the Sun Eater only send in one agent?”

Patrick gripped his sword’s hilt tightly. “But even someone on Takeshi Kurita’s level wouldn’t have enough mana to overcharge a whole tower, would they?”

“They wouldn’t need to,” I took a breath. “They’re planar travelers. They could have an entire army on the other side of a portal channeling mana into this place. Or just, you know, one evil god.”

“R…right.” Patrick drew in a breath. “What do we do?”

“The thing true heroes do,” I said. “Find people more powerful than we are to solve the problem.”

***We sprinted out of Elora’s room as a group. While Elora might have been able to overwhelm the anti-teleportation defenses that had gone up, she’d just thrown up a portal to get Showoff out of the building minutes earlier, and we couldn’t risk wasting every remaining bit of her mana on a gamble that might fail to accomplish anything.

As we rushed down the stairwell, the first shades burst through the walls.

Patrick reacted fastest, drawing Bright Reflection before I could even tell what was happening and cleaving straight through one of the half- manifested shadows. It tore in half as his gleaming blade passed through it, but as effective as the attack as, it was like taking a chip out of a boulder.

By the time we’d taken another two steps, every inch of the walls was inky black as hundreds of shadows began to tear their way into our world.

“It would seem,” Farren observed, “that we’ve been noticed.”

Mara punched into one of the walls with an essence blade, dragging it downward as she ran, cleaving through everything in her path — but shadows began to form along the stairs around her legs, grabbing and tearing at her pant legs. Her shroud and shields protected her, but they weakened by the moment.

Elora clapped her hands. Brilliant flames flashed across the walls, searing the stone, then whipped inward to clear the stairs.

“Keep moving,” she urged us. We required no further encouragement.

We reached the Valian gathering room next, hearing the sounds of combat as we rushed forward. There were only a handful of people in the chamber, most having left for the main council meeting or to observe the duel, but those that remained were gathered behind a rough barricade of fallen tables surrounded by dozens of rapidly appearing shades.

As we rushed across the room, a hurled axe flashed out from behind the barrier, cleaving through a half dozen of the shades before whirling back to an extended hand. I recognized the weapon in spite of only seeing it briefly—Maverly?“Lars!” I rushed to flank the shades as they flooded toward the barrier. As I drew Selys-Lyann, the sword’s blade flashed the brightest I’d ever seen it, frost exploding outward as if eager to confront the monsters around us.

Improved Haste.

I rushed into the shades, hewing left and right, then flooded my shroud with light mana and sent it outward in a burst. I blew a hole through the crowd, a torrent of flames following in my wake from Elora’s hand as I rushed to the barricade.

“Corin Cadence, my favorite customer!” Lars stood up behind the barrier, then hurled his axe backward, where it cleaved into a shade that was peeling itself out of one of the walls. The axe flew straight back to his outstretched grip while he continued facing me. “It’s a bad day for business.”

As I got to the barrier, I found over a dozen people huddling behind it, too terrified or weak to fight. Mostly children, presumably those that had been brought along with a parent, that didn’t have permission to go to the actual council gathering.

Also, Rupert Kent’s dad.

The rest of our group got behind the barrier, unleashing more attacks at the shades to keep the tide at bay, but they were unrelenting.

Farren tugged on Elora’s sleeve. “Now would be a good time for an exit.”

“I don’t know how far we’d need to go to get out of range of this madness, and I still don’t know if I can—”

Lars pulled something out of a bag at his side. It looked like a huge ceramic key. “This might help.”

Elora took the key, turning it over. “This’ll help me do a direct teleport to the anchor it’s linked to, if it’s close, but—”

“Pending,” he said simply. That was the town outside of the Seventh Spire.

“I think I can manage that, but it’s going to take most of what I have left. If I leave, everyone else—”

“Leave me here,” Mara said. “I’ll fight through this, find the person responsible and shut it down.”

I took a breath, then nodded to her. “Same.”

Patrick rested his sword against his shoulder. “Then I’m staying, too.”

Sera hesitated for a moment, then finally took a breath. “Think you can come back for us later?”

Elora turned to her. “You’ll need to get the anti-teleportation defenses turned off first. This is a bad idea.”

Farren frowned silently. If she had any prophetic knowledge of our fate, she wasn’t sharing.

“Heroics is all about bad ideas.” Lars slapped Mara on the shoulder. “I’ll make sure the kids are safe. Get going, before more shades show up.”

She gave him a nod. Then, as Elora began her spell to evacuate the people who remained behind the barricade, the four of us ran on.

***We rushed through the chamber door, then turned up the stairs, toward where we’d last seen everyone gathered. Shades were still bleeding out of the walls here, but not at the same speed. I could understand why. There was a cacophony of sound up ahead of us, hundreds of spells flying as the council members fought off the shades manifested in the chambers around them.

“Wait, hold on,” Sera called out weakly, stumbling as we headed up the final flight of stairs.

Patrick spun, blasting another shade coming out from a wall with a beam of light. “You okay?”

“No, but that’s not the problem.” She gripped at her chest, frowned, then shook her head. “Rushing straight into a mass combat is just going to get us lost in the chaos or killed. We need a definitive plan. We can’t just say ‘we’ll find the bad guy’ and expect to do it in a room with spells flying everywhere. Corin, can you track the source of the shades?”

“Maybe. We’d need to find the runes or spell effect that are spawning them, or…I guess I could try to grab one of the shades directly, but…”

“No, that’s too much of a possession risk, even if you have light mana.” Sera shook her head, then let out an “eep” as another shade’s hands tried to grab her from the floor. Mara lashed out with a kick, a mana blade forming from her foot, and tore them into pieces.

The shades weren’t very durable, even without using light mana. The problem was sheer numbers. Even as we repositioned, more were coming, and this was the least shade-dense place we’d found since leaving Elora’s room.

“Why are they even summoning shades?” Patrick asked. “If the plan is to blow up the spire, wouldn’t that just attract more attention?”

“It’s likely that whoever is trying to overcharge the spire expected to be noticed quickly after the mana levels started to rise. So, they set up the duel as an initial distraction, then sealed off our escape and started summoning the shades when that ended. That’s just a guess, though. We don’t have much information to—” I paused to cleave another encroaching shade “— speculate from.”

“If you can’t track the source of the shades safely, then…” Sera snapped her fingers. “Hold on. Winds, carry this message to Len Hastings: We’re trying to track the mastermind. Can we meet?” A pause. “She’s coming. Hold here.”

The four of us fell into a back-to-back formation. I pulled out my light mana battery, then began to funnel it into my shroud, creating a persistent light mana aura. Patrick did the same thing, but by utilizing Bright Reflection’s power.

We didn’t have to wait long. Len burst down the stairs, smashing through a crowd of shades with a phantasmal two-handed hammer. With each swing of the titanic tool, crowds of shades exploded into the tower walls, hurled like they’d been struck by a battering ram.

I blinked at the display, then my eyes widened at the massive tide of shades following her. There were dozens, if not hundreds, of monsters trailing in her wake.

“Wall!” Sera yelled, forming a gleaming barrier of green stone right behind Len. The shades charged straight into it — and slammed into the surface, failing to push through.

Sera coughed, clutching her chest again. “What was that?”

“Put spirit mana into it. That was…possibly a mistake. But it worked.” She grimaced. “Won’t last long. Len, we need you.”

Len came to a stop when she reached our overlapping aura of light. “You kids should be getting out of here, this whole place is going to—”

“The bomb that someone used to hurt Mary. Do you still have the pieces?” Sera asked.

I blinked. “You think…”

“I think that someone who likes to enchant things into bombs might be the same person overcharging this tower, yes.”

“That’s a leap,” I told her. But Len was already fishing something out of a dimensional bag at her side.

“I collected and reassembled as many pieces of the bomb as I could, but I couldn’t trace the maker.” She displayed a fractured cylinder, which looked like it had been glued together with adhesive. The runes were inert now, but recognizable. “There wasn’t a clear mana signature.”

I frowned, reaching out, then cast a tracking spell. Nothing. “No signature…an Arbiter like me could have done it.”

Len raised an eyebrow. “I don’t suppose you have anything to confess?” “No,” I told her. “And I don’t suppose Warren—”

She shook her head. “No. He’d never turn his attunement back on. Or sacrifice his spire. Not even on his worst day.”

“Then…” I frowned. “Another Arbiter? Or an artificial Arbiter? Farren could have enough knowledge…”

“But we were with her during the duel,” Sera said. “And while she could have set up something ahead of time to trigger later, that’s a leap. What about other types of tracking spells? Ones that would work against an Arbiter?”

“Spirit tracking.” I snapped my fingers. “The same way I found a trail to Constantine, based on his old Petitioner’s Coin. It’s worth—”

“I already tried it,” Len said. “I got nothing. Either the target was out of my range, or blocked with power beyond my abilities.”

My shoulders slumped. “If you can’t do it, then there’s no way I…”

“Cooperative casting,” Patrick said. “Like Sera and I do with Permafrost Cascade. Len might be much stronger than we are, but we have four people with spirit magic here.”

“Best to leave Sera out of it,” I said. “She’s already—”

“No, I’m in.” She put her hand out. “Or rather, this is an emergency, so…Seiryu, I invoke you.” Her hand trembled as she held it out. “Hurry. I’ll contribute as much mana as I can, but I shouldn’t maintain this for long.”

Patrick’s hand came forward, his sigil of Bright Reflection gleaming brightly as he put it over Sera’s, even as frost began to spread from her fingertips.

My hand came in next, then Len’s. She took the broken cylinder back. “I’ll lead the spell,” she said. “Just contribute as much mana as you can safely. I’ll shape it.”

I took a breath, then attached a mana thread to my spirit mana battery. “Ready.”

“Go.” Len nodded to all of us. “Spirit Tracking Analytical Arrow.”

We flooded spirit mana into the air, which Len drew into her spell, more and more white light gathering around us in a veil of mist, until…Len’s eyes flashed white. “I have it. Stop the flow.”

I drew in a breath. My battery was dry and half my own mana was gone.

Sera wobbled on her feet. Mara, the only one of us not casting, stepped in immediately to catch her before she collapsed.

We all turned to her. “Sera?”

“G.  go. I’ll be okay.” She gave me an obviously fake smile.

“We’re not leaving you,” I told her.

“Len, can you get us downstairs?” Mara asked. “Sera can’t fight, but the monsters here trust her. We can go make sure they’re safe, then rally anyone that can help.”

“I have a master key for teleporting within the spire. It’ll take some mana, but I can get you down to your room.” Len nodded. “Anyone else going?”

Patrick and I looked at each other.

“Go,” Sera insisted. “Trust us to handle our side.”

I took a deep breath, then squeezed Sera’s hand. “Don’t push yourself too hard.”

She laughed. “Look who’s talking.”

Then, with a snap of Len’s fingers, Mara and Sera were gone.

“Let’s go.” Len raised the cylinder. “Someone is still actively trying to block divination, this isn’t going to last forever.”

“Okay.” Patrick nodded. “I think we’re ready to run.”

“Run?” Len hefted her hammer. “I just told you, I can teleport in here. We’re not running anywhere through this madness. Brace yourselves for an ambush.”

“Their ambush or ours?” I asked. “Yes,” she replied.

Then, with a snap of her fingers, we were gone.

