CHAPTER XXIX – SHOWOFF

We emerged from the Underspire — that was, apparently, the formal name for the monster wing — briefly to make our delivery.

It had taken some time to figure out exactly what to hand off. Sera summoned Researcher to us to make copies of several crystals from Keras’ box — ones we could give the emperor permanently, as a gesture of greater significance than just loaning her our box. Doing that also meant we didn’t have to worry about coordinating a return of our existing crystals.

I checked the contents of each crystal we were going to give her before handing them off, making sure we weren’t giving away anything particularly sensitive.

After a bit of debate, we decided against sharing Keras’ memories of his sparring match against Edria Song herself, as we felt they would be more likely to cause problems than contribute to our cause.

Finally, I included a single crystal of my own memories — one where I’d rescued Keras from the spire, to give her context on why he was there. Hopefully that would help add some authenticity to the one she’d already seen.

I considered giving her memories of some of my other battles, but ultimately, there was no reason to give her extra information on my abilities that I didn’t need to.

Len arranged for us to have a fancy gift box to put the crystals in, which we wrapped and then delivered personally. The emperor formally accepted the box, then dismissed us.

And with that, our part of the job was done. We met with Elora after that.

“I’m told,” Elora said, “that you have made arrangements for the Emperor of Edria to step in if a visage attacks our nation directly?”

I found her tone a little worrying. Was she going to tell me it was a terrible idea? “I did, yes.”

Elora Theas watched me for a moment, pausing, then said simply, “I need to introduce you to some people.”

“…Why?”

“Because,” Elora explained, “I need to be able to take as much credit as possible for this idea, and that’ll be easier if you’re with me.”

“Oh.” I blinked. “Thanks for being honest about that?”

“You’re welcome, dear. Now, let’s go make you deeply uncomfortable for a few hours, before you retire to an evening of avoiding assassins.”

“I hate political events,” I told her.

“Really?” She looked surprised. “From what I’ve seen, you fit inperfectly.”

***The rest of the day was largely a blur of one of my least-favorite things— talking to a bunch of important strangers.

Sera was in her element, at least. On several occasions, I found her chatting with people from other delegations in their own native languages. I knew she had some degree of proficiency in several tongues, but I was genuinely impressed she knew enough to communicate verbally with dignitaries.

It’s possible I should have studied more of that myself, but the only language I’d ever really thrown myself into was learning runes and sub- glyphs, if one could even call them that. Well, and a bit of studying Valdaric, for reasons.

The day concluded without any other massive incidents, which was good for my ailing heart.

Hope tomorrow is easier, I told myself as I went to sleep in the Underspire.

Patrick and Mara left with Len at some point during the night, for reasons that weren’t clear to me. They were both injured and looked absolutely ragged when I saw them in the morning, but they survived whatever it was. I wanted to ask, but after they washed up, they went straight to bed.

I was deeply curious about what they’d been up to, but I didn’t get to go off and delve into whatever mysteries they’d explored. I had something equally mystifying and much scarier to deal with.

Politics.

We had several new guests at the meeting the following day. I ignored most of them, until a particular call out caught my attention.

“Now introducing an independent Emerald representing the interests of Haven Securities, bearing the designation Showoff.”

I gawked in the direction of the doorway. Sera outright shot to her feet, ignoring decorum. He was wearing a mask and a jaunty hat, but there was no hiding who we were looking at. The gold hilt on his belt seemed lonely without the red that it had once been paired with. There was no replacement sword, just an innocuous dagger on the opposite side of the belt.

“Showoff” bowed to the mild applause of the crowd upon his entry, then walked straight over to our table, ignoring the role of his flimsy disguise, and sat down in the chair to Elora’s right. He kicked his legs up, deliberately kicking a seating card that bore the name “Derek Hartigan” off the table.

Sera stepped in immediately, ignoring the watching crowd and pulling him into a hug. He squawked in surprise, then pulled her in.

“Is that any way to treat a mysterious stranger?” Showoff asked.

“You could have told us you were coming,” Sera whispered. “You could have told us you were okay.”

“Actually, I couldn’t have. I’ve been rather busy. I’m still busy, actually. I’m on assignment. And I should warn you — you won’t want to be seen associating with me.”

Sera pulled him tighter. “Too late.”

Elora tapped her on the shoulder with an “ahem.” Sera shot Elora an annoyed, red-eyed glance, then seemed to process who she was looking at and finally let Derek — let’s just drop the pretense, it was obviously Derek— go.

“You could have told us you were okay,” Elora said, apparently having missed the earlier exchange as she walked over to the table.

Derek laughed. “About that. I’m really not. And you’re not going to be, either, if you’re here much longer. Things are about to get messy.”

“Messy how? And when?” I asked.

Derek turned to me. “The ‘how’ will be obvious soon. As for when…I’ll go ahead and say about five, four, three, two…”

Len’s voice made another announcement that reached across the chamber, causing nearly every delegate present to freeze.

“Now announcing Takeshi Kurita, Former Member of the Dalenos Six, Twice-Fold Emerald, Hydra’s Bane, and now bearing the title Voice of the Sun Eater.”

As the room exploded into an uproar, I took a better look at the swordsman who had just announced himself as the Voice of the Sun Eater.

He looked pretty ordinary, as far as people with ominous titles went. I’d have guessed him as a guy in his thirties or forties, some salt in his black hair, with skin on the paler side for a Dalenos complexion. His eyes were dark, too, but in a way that could have easily been either natural or “glowing with subtle evil power”. Hard to say.

The strange mark on his forehead, though? That was unsubtle anddefinitely glowing with evil power.

If I’d been uneducated on the topic, I might have assumed it to be some sort of ultra-secret attunement, or maybe an artificial one. As it was, though, I’d heard enough stories to discern what I was looking at it. It was the mark of a vek — one of those who had been taken over by the power of one of the Sun Eater’s army of ruinshades.

Or…at least something like it. I was under the impression that most vek didn’t retain their sense of identity, except perhaps for the ones that were leaders of armies, like General Akadi, the puppetmaster behind a great deal of chaos in Edria many years earlier.

If we were dealing with something like that, I had a lot of questions and an even greater number of concerns.

Takeshi Kurita had been one of Keras’ most formidable opponents when they’d clashed during the Tournament of the Sacred Sword — and that had been a decade earlier. In that time, an attuned could grow tremendously in strength, especially if they had the backing of a visage like the Dalenos Six presumably did.

I wasn’t aware that he’d been removed from that prestigious group. Maybe his loss in the tournament was the cause of that, or it could have been something completely different. Maybe he’d just retired. He was showing a fair bit of grey hair, but then again, I couldn’t tell if that was a sign of age or just being possessed by a God of Ruin.

As Kurita stepped forward, he smiled, and I felt something subtle in the air. A chill ran down my spine and I felt an immediate surge of fear.

Some people froze as the aura washed over them.

A year earlier, it might have crushed me utterly, but I’d been hit with several similar effects now, both during the council and before. I knew what I was dealing with.

Sakki, I realized.

I sent a flare of light and spirit mana out from my shroud, blasting away the effect from influencing me immediately. I wasn’t the only one doing something similar — as my aura reached out, I felt it brush against a near- identical one around Derek, and something not dissimilar from the sword on Patrick’s hip.

Bright Reflection was protecting him, which was strange, because he wasn’t one of the people with their hands on a hilt.

I was, though. I was inches from drawing Selys-Lyann. Others weren’t even that cautious.

The Emperor of Edria was on her feet, a dozen people fanning out around her, weapons drawn in a sliver of a heartbeat.

“Enough!”

The booming voice came not from the self-proclaimed servant of the Sun Eater, but from an old man. Along with his single word, the aura of fear was blasted apart, replaced with one of calm and tranquility.

I turned and blinked at the Master of the Tower, who was marching toward the door, none of his usual slump in his stance, no hesitation in his face. “There will be no violence in this convocation outside of formal duels. That includes aggressive manifestations of spiritual pressure. Fear is harm. Am I understood?”

If I hadn’t been looking closely, I might not have seen the tremble in Warren’s hands.

“Perfectly, my lord.” Takeshi Kurita bowed at the waist. “You’ll have to forgive me for the accident. I sometimes forget how easy it is for the weak to be overwhelmed by the merest brush of true power.”

Wow. I didn’t realize there were actual people that talk like that.

Then again, I suppose if you’re a servant of someone who eats planetary systems, there isn’t a need for much subtlety.

The next words came not from the tower’s master or the interloper, but rather from a man not much older than myself.

I didn’t understand them, aside from the word “father,” which was about the extent of my Dalenos-language comprehension. But I could understandthe tone, the confusion that came from Takeshi Tetsurin. Apparently, he hadn’t been aware of his father’s new employer.

Kurita turned to his son, appraising, then replied, “You recall when I went to the temple for strength. I found what I wanted and more. You will be given the chance to bask in the same glory, my son.”

“That,” Takeshi Tetsurin replied in Velthryn, straightening, “is my father’s face, but not his voice.”

The interloper smiled. “As I said, I am the Voice of the Sun Eater now.

And, on his behalf, I have a great deal to say.”

“We are not interested,” Hannah Meiyer said, holding some sort of polearm defensively in front of the Emperor of Edria, the person at our gathering who was least likely to need it.

“I imagine you wouldn’t be until you’ve actually heard the offer,” Kurita replied. “But if you’ll allow me to speak to each of you, I can promise that many of you would be interested in what I have to offer.”

“Your master eats worlds and then steals the bodies of people within them,” Hannah replied. “I have a hard time seeing how any of us would willingly take part in that.”

“Ah, a common misconception, and one I’m here to correct. My master does not devour every world he comes across, nor every person within them. Those worlds that surrender can be reformed to his specifications — and mortals there released to continue their lives, improved and empowered by the master’s touch. And this world, in particular, has been chosen for a great honor — to become the master’s new seat.”

Across the room in the Caelford segment, Farren was hyperventilating. Kamaria Clarent, in full Advanced Armor, had wrapped her arms around Farren from behind. I couldn’t tell if that was to comfort her or to keep her from moving. Nakht stood in front of the two, his expression completely absent of his usual professional demeanor.

He was enraged. I had to wonder if there was someone on standby to contain him if things escalated much further.

Someone else made a move first.

“This seat,” Derek Hartigan said, finally kicking his feet off his table, and hopping to his feet, “is taken. And, given that you’re supposed to be dead, there won’t be a seat at any of these tables for you, either. A shame. I’d recommend you both cut your losses and leave now.”

“Or?”

“Well, there’s one way to get a seat here. We could expedite the process.

I’ll make it simple for you.”

Sera reached out for Derek in terror, but he stepped out of her way without looking at her, slipped off his glove, and swiped it in mid-air.

Across the room, Takeshi Kurita recoiled as an invisible force smashed him across the face, an audible crack resounding across the room.

“I challenge you to a duel.”

The Voice of the Sun Eater looked briefly confused, reaching up, and wiped blood off his lips. Then, he smiled.

“I accept.”

“Wonderful!” Derek’s smile was visible beneath his mask. “To the dueling chambers, then.”

“Unnecessary.” The Voice of the Sun Eater clapped his hands together. A circle of glowing black stones burst from the ground in the dance floor area, forming a ring. “I have created a field for us. Come.”

Sera managed to catch Derek’s arm as he turned. “This is a mistake. He was a dual attuned even when Keras fought him, with compounding attunements. Now, he has something on top of that, beyond an attunement. I can feel it, it’s—”

“I’m well aware. Don’t worry, I have an excellent plan.” Derek deftly slipped his arm out of her grip. “And I’ve picked up a trick or two of my own.”

The Voice of the Sun Eater folded his arms, vanishing and then reappearing in the center of the ring of stones, floating in mid-air. “Come. Unless you lack the courage to face me.”

“No, nothing like that, just saying goodbye to my table.” Derek half- shouted to get his voice across the room, not projecting it through magic or spirit the way Kurita seemed to be. “Be right there!”

Kurita scoffed audibly enough that I could hear it, but waited.

Derek leaned in. “Listen, I didn’t get to give any of you a proper goodbye last time, and I’m sorry for that. I’m sorry this all played out like this. I got overconfident with that last affair. I should have brought Emeralds with me.”

“On the topic of overconfidence,” Elora cut in, sneering, “you seem to have a serious problem with pattern recognition.”

He shushed her with a look. “I’ll be fine, dear. Good to know you care.

This is where you should be doing what you’re best at, though.”

“Politics?” I asked.

“No.” He winked at Elora. “Leaving before things get excessivelymessy.”

With that, Derek pulled away from the group, ignoring both Elora and Sera’s protests for him to stop.

Sera waved a hand, forming a wall of ice directly in front of him. Derek sighed and hopped right over it, seemingly unbothered by the fact that the wall had been more than fifteen feet in height.

Sera turned to run after him. Elora’s hand grabbed her this time. “Stop,” Elora hissed.

“We are not letting him make another sacrifice play,” Sera spat back. “Let me go!”

“Not until you think about what’s happening. He’s made a formal challenge and that has been accepted. Stopping him isn’t going to help. Play ahead.”

Sera took a deep breath, then nodded. “What’s next?”

“Come with me. All of you.” Elora released Sera’s arm, then as Derek marched toward an implacable opponent with a mask and a smile, we fled as a group from the room.

***We weren’t the only ones leaving or repositioning. Even the Emperor’s delegation was moving toward the doors, though they didn’t actually exit. They let us walk out, although I caught a quizzical look from Hannah Meiyer on the way out. I gave her a shrug. I genuinely didn’t know what the plan was. I, at least, didn’t have one yet.

“Where are we going?” Sera demanded, only a step behind Elora.

“That viewing room you spoke of, where Len was using something to watch the duels before. Where is it?”

“I’m not sure we have access to it,” I told her. “She probably keeps it locked.”

“I’ll send a message spell to Len, she can open it for us,” Sera offered. “No.” Elora raised a hand. “Just show us the room. We’re breaking in.” “Ah. Deniability for her. Understood. Corin?”

I hastily took the front of the group, leading the way. We passed a few others throughout the tower, but we kept quiet, and no one stopped us.

When we reached the viewing room, we found it unlocked. This wasn’t because the room didn’t have any security — rather, one glance at the wallshowed a set of runes that had been deliberately turned off. Not by Len using a key, but someone else breaking the room’s security.

I held out a hand. “Hold. Someone beat us here.” “Probably just Len,” Patrick offered.

“No. Wards are broken. Abort?” I asked.

“No,” Elora said. “Unless there’s another Harbinger of the Sun Eater in here, we can handle it. Still…Vanniv, I summon you.”

A familiar karvensi appeared at her side. “Ah, the political festivities have begun! Am I to be your—oh, it’s a deadly crisis again, isn’t it?”

“It will be shortly,” Elora explained. “Whether or not that crisis begins in the next room remains an open question. Open the door?”

Vanniv turned to us with a conspiratorial look. “Elora always has me open the door when something murderous is on the other side. Dying after opening a door really helps bring out my best features.”

He winked at Sera, then spun around and, per his instructions, opened the door.

There was, fortunately, no explosion or murder. Instead, a sole figure stood inside, watching the viewing mirror that hovered in mid-air in the center of the room.

“Oh, hello.” Anabelle Farren waved cheerfully toward the doorway. “Are you here to watch the beginning of the end?”

