CHAPTER XXX – SABOTAGE

Vanniv froze in the doorway upon seeing the solitary woman in the center, then pointed to himself with a questioning look, like, “Are you asking me?”

Meanwhile, I wondered briefly how Farren had gotten ahead of us — I was reasonably confident I’d seen her in the audience chamber behind us, and she hadn’t looked like she was leaving. Then, I remembered it was Farren that I was thinking about, and that trying to figure out how or why she was doing anything was typically a fruitless endeavor.

“Miss Farren?” Elora stood behind Vanniv, allowing him to continue to block the doorway. “I’m not quite certain of what you speak, but if you’re watching the duel, we would be quite pleased to join you.”

Farren blinked at her, then glanced at the mirror, then back to Elora. “Okay. But don’t leave too late.”

Slowly and uncertainly, we entered the room.

“And you might want to seal the door behind you,” Farren added. “We wouldn’t want anyone else barging in. Not before they’re supposed to.”

That sounded…almost reasonable?After everyone was inside, I reactivated the wards on the door, then set to adding a few of my own.

Sorry, Len. I’m sure you’ll get back in here soon enough. Probably could break right through the anti-teleport wards if you need to. It’s better if we keep others out.

Then I turned to the viewing mirror.

Derek, still in his “Showoff” persona, was on the opposite side of a dueling ring from Takeshi Kurita, now a Harbinger of the Sun Eater. As I watched, Derek shrugged off his overcoat, revealing a black shirt and pants beneath. Both were threaded with golden stitches that were likely to beenchanting runes, but I couldn’t get a good look at them through the viewing mirror.

My heart sank as I recognized the bracelets on his wrists. One was gold, matching the sword on his left hip. The other was crimson, cracked and worn, with no sword left to match it. Instead of a second sword, Derek had a seemingly unremarkable dagger on his belt. A glance at it with Detect Aura showed nothing magical about the dagger, but the shirt and pants were glowing green with power, as were his boots.

Well, his new employer hasn’t been skimping on her investment, at least.

As impressive as that equipment was, it wasn’t the sight of Derek’s equipment that caught my attention.

When I looked at his opponent, I saw three overlapping auras — all bright blue.

Sapphire, I considered. But Sapphire-level attunements aren’t real. Unless…someone working for the Sun Eater knows how to add new functions, much like I can.

Or there’s simply something I don’t know, like how ascended attunements work.

It could be a trick, too. But if he’s that strong…I glanced to my friends.

It was probably better not to tell them. They looked incredibly worried as-is.

A crowd had formed a ring around the pair, giving them about thirty feet of room to fight. This was, by any reasonable standard, not enough room for Emeralds to conduct any serious combat — but the people there seemed less than concerned about collateral damage. They were, for the most part, other Emeralds.

There was some security, at least. Just after Derek tossed his overcoat to someone in the crowd and began to do some stretches, I saw an Enchanter— the same Enchanter that had nearly killed Mary, looking a lot less incapacitated than Mary was — reach down and activate a circle of runes etched into the floor of the room.

A visible barrier manifested around the dueling pair.

“This is insanity. We need to stop him.” Patrick gestured at the mirror.

“He knows what he’s doing, dear,” Elora reassured us, but she didn’t sound very convinced of her words.

“Don’t worry,” Farren told us. “You’ll get him out of here. Now, if you’re thinking of the devastating loss of life in the wake of what follows, that’s much more of a problem.”

“What are you on about?” Elora asked. “Do you know something about what he’s planning?”

Farren frowned at her. “Which one? The Sun Eater or the Tyrant?”

Elora was, in that rarest of occasions, rendered monetarily speechless. “It’s starting,” I told them.

All eyes turned back to the mirror.

Someone was announcing the terms of the duel, which was apparently to surrender or incapacitation. Both combatants agreed to the terms, bowed to the judge — who I didn’t recognize — and then turned to each other.

“Watch what’s missing,” Farren told us.

I frowned at that, looking around in the mirror image, but I simply found the statement puzzling. If anyone else sorted it out, they didn’t say. Instead, we watched as the combatants paused just out of sword reach.

Derek said something quietly, but I didn’t catch it.

“He’s asking Kurita if he’s under any sort of compulsion,” Sera explained, apparently reading lips. “Kurita said no. Now, they’re about to start.”

I saw Derek shrug and heard him say, “Not like you’d answer honestly either way.”

Then, they began to circle each other, each prepared to draw their swords.

There was a moment of tension—Then Takeshi Kurita flew forward, drawing both swords in a simultaneous swing. Lightning rippled around his entire body as he struck, a thunderous cacophony of sound accompanying his draw. It was an impressive effect, between his tremendous speed and the magical power he unleashed in his first movement.

Derek took a little step to the side, avoiding both swings entirely, and didn’t even bother drawing his sword. Instead, he flicked his wrist, sending a tiny piece of metal out of his sleeve.

Takeshi reacted immediately in the same way most swordsmen tended to, slapping the object out of the air. It hit the ground a moment later. I leaned in closer to the mirror, trying to see the item, but I couldn’t get agood look. It didn’t radiate magic, aside from the electrical energy that was now playing off the surface from the impact with Takeshi’s sword.

“What is this?” Takeshi’s eyes flicked down to the object as he stepped back, circling.

“Payment,” Derek explained, “for your funeral costs.”

Then he snapped his fingers. Two duplicates of him appeared, one to his left and one to right. None of them drew their swords. Instead, each reached into a sleeve and produced a single flower.

Takeshi moved in a blur, cutting through the central Derek — the original — in a single motion. His swords tore through without resistance, which would have been terrifying if I couldn’t see the image visibly warble as the lightning-wrapped swords cleaved through it.

“And some flowers,” the Derek on the left said, “since no one else is likely to offer them to a traitor.”

Each of the versions of Derek tossed a flower at him. Takeshi didn’t wait to see what kind of trick it was — he simply turned toward the Derek that was speaking and swung his sword upward.

Icy spikes burst from the ground, enveloping that entire third of the arena in an instant, piercing straight through Derek’s body.

“Not a very good climate for most flowers to grow,” Derek’s voice came from behind him. “But sometimes the most beautiful ones grow in the harshest environments.”

Takeshi spun around, making another rapid swing that parted the air, but managed little else. The third Derek simply stepped backward to avoid the attack, seemingly guided by the wind itself, Takeshi’s thunderous cut harmlessly passing within a hair of his chest.

“Ooh, almost felt that one.” Derek smiled. “I suppose it’s time I start taking this seriously, isn’t it?”

He cracked his neck and reached for the sword on his belt. He didn’t get a chance to draw before Takeshi stomped the ground, sending a visible ripple across the floor. Derek stumbled — and I felt the reason a moment later, as the entire tower trembled.

An earthquake with a single step. That’s absurd! And now Derek is—Twin blades cut through Derek’s stumbling form. And, predictably, met with nothing but air.

Takeshi responded immediately by turning again, clearly growing frustrated by the illusions, but he was a hair too slow.

Something slipped around his neck.

Not garotte wire — nothing so messy as that.

No, a familiar medallion, one I’d seen Derek borrow from Keras from the Jaden Box.

In retrospect, Wrynn would probably want that back, now that she was out. That said, she’d probably have approved of this use of it.

Derek had picked it up because of his own experience with being controlled by Orden. It was an amulet that supposedly gave complete immunity to mental compulsion—And, if the way that it flashed and the black symbol on Kurita’s forehead dimmed was any indication, it was working hard to do its job.

Takeshi reached for the necklace, his expression one of disbelief. Then, slowly, he turned around and clapped his hands once.

There was a warble in the air and Derek appeared, Tavare still sheathed at his side.

“You thinking clearer?” Derek asked.

“Much,” Takeshi Kurita answered. “I should thank you for this.” “You can thank me with a hasty surrender—”

“You misunderstand.”

Kurita flicked a sword in Derek’s direction. The air screamed with thunder as Derek flew backward, slamming into the arena barrier with an audible crunch. This time, I saw Derek’s shield sigil flare on the impact, and his shrouds appear to cushion the blow.

He’s real this time, I processed grimly, and not in a great spot.

Kurita didn’t bother to lunge in and take advantage of the opening as Derek pushed himself off the barrier, wobbling in place. Instead, he casually gestured, forming ice around Derek’s legs and rapidly spreading it upward, enveloping him from the waist down.

“Well,” Derek mumbled as he rested his hand on his sword hilt, “that answers the mind control question.”

“Not mind control,” Takeshi explained as he crossed the arena. “As a Harbinger, I merely shared my body with one of the great generals of Rendalir. It is not so different from your own bonds, Soulblade. At times, it is a wonderous opportunity. But alas, he is not yet used to the tricks of modern magic. Whereas I am intimately familiar with your brand of treachery — and I will permit it to go no further.”

Kurita lunged so quickly that I could see an afterimage where he’d been standing.

As Kurita moved, the broken bracelet on Derek’s wrist flared and flames surged around him, melting the ice around his lower body.

Even then, Derek didn’t draw his sword. Instead, he spoke a word. “Lightshow.”

And the mirror went blindingly bright.

I heard a scream — Takeshi’s — that rapidly cut off with a gurgle.

When Tavare’s brilliant radiance faded from the mirror, Takeshi Kurita was clutching at his throat, a dagger buried deep within it. Kurita fell to his knees, choking, fingers groping for the weapon’s hilt.

So that’s where The Ordinary Knife went, I considered as people in the crowd began to scream.

Derek took a step forward, his hands open. “My understanding is that it’s necessary to be abundantly clear with people like yours, so allow me to deliver a message to your master.”

As Kurita fumbled with the dagger, Derek put a single finger on the pommel. “This world is already taken.”

A blast of golden light enveloped the knife, surging through it and into Takeshi’s body. As the radiance flowed through Takeshi, twisted shadows exploded outward from his skin. Kurita’s eyes went glassy, then his body collapsed forward, unmoving. The mark on his forehead began to fade.

I heard screams from the audience. The judge was saying something, but I heard Derek more clearly.

“Always need to be certain with creatures like you.”

Derek finally drew his sword as people continued to scream. The Enchanter rushed to the arena runes, working to undo the barrier, but Derek didn’t give him the time.

He jammed Tavare into the fallen man’s form, frowned, then ducked down and grabbed the knife — and amulet — at the man’s neck.

“Thank you all, it’s been terrible.” Derek lifted the bloodstained knife, took a bow, and disappeared with the sound of a ringing bell.

***Most of the people in my room were dead silent. Sera, however, was looking expectantly toward the chamber door.

I heard a knock on the door only a few moments later. “Corin, if you would?” Sera asked.

I blinked at her. “You don’t mean…”

“Time is rather important, but yes.” Sera nodded to me.

I rushed to the door, rapidly disabling the necessary enchantments to open it.

While I moved to the door, Farren was whispering something with Elora. It only took me a few moments to get the door open again — I didn’t need to do anything complicated — and by that point, Elora was opening a portal.

The door opened. Derek “Showoff” Hartigan stood on the other side, still masked, bloodstained knife sheathed at his waist, his coat now thrown over his shoulder.

Susan the Spectre hovered next to him, partially inside the floor.

“Good, good, I was just about to see if she could make it through the wall,” Derek said, stepping into the room.

Elora walked away from her portal to step in front of Derek, then full- on slapped him across the face.

“Very likely deserved that for a number of things, but I’m afraid time is short for apologies, so…lovely to see you all, thanks for everything, try not to look too involved.” Derek took the hand that had just slapped him, kissed it softly, and ran straight through the portal.

Elora snapped her fingers. The portal vanished.

“Hope you like swamp water,” she muttered, “you handsome jerk.”

Sera stepped over, putting a comforting hand on Elora’s shoulder. Susan the Spectre hovered closer, still half-way inside the floor.

“That was a great murder, boss,” Susan said. “Didn’t think you had it in you, but I’m proud.”

“It wasn’t murder, precisely. That man was more or less already dead.” “Don’t think yer givin’ yourself enough credit, there, but hey, if that’swhat you’ve gotta say…” Susan shrugged.

“No time for this banter, I’m afraid.” Elora sighed. “Vanniv, you’re dismissed for now.”

“Very well, handsome time is over.” Vanniv nodded, then disappeared with an entirely unnecessary flash of light.

Sera made a gesture with her hand. “Susan, you’d better go, too.

Especially given the whole accomplice thing.”

“Right, right, boss. Keep me in mind for any more of that, though.” The spectre vanished as well, leaving us among humans and whatever Farrenactually was.

“Corin, can you do anything to disrupt tracking in here?” Sera asked. “Technically, yes, but it’d be redundant. Serious anti-divination stuff onthis room, including a false recreation enchantment. I didn’t turn it off. That means recreating what just happened here with divination will be hard. I can’t do better than what Warren’s work is already doing.” I frowned. “Which is probably why Farren was waiting here?”

“Hm?” Farren blinked. “What? Is it time?”

“Not sure which time you’re talking about,” I responded.

“Ah.” She gave me a sympathetic look. “That’s always the problem, isn’t it?”

I heard something distantly, coming from a nearby stairwell. “People.” “Then we’re going,” Elora said. “Gather close.”

Everyone moved quickly, even Farren, and then Elora snapped her fingers.

We found ourselves in one of the Valian guest bedrooms, presumably Elora’s. No one else was present.

I wobbled a little as we all appeared.

“We’ll need to hope that the trail ends at the door,” Elora explained, “but we’re going to all look suspicious. Valia in general will.”

“What if they just use that reconstruction-style divination magic outside the door to see who came in, in what order?” I asked.

“I don’t think you’re going to get anyone playing too hard at the detective here. Even if they did, however, the runes on the room should obscure things right outside, shouldn’t they?”

I shrugged. It was true that the enchantment runes weren’t single- directional and pointing inward for their area of effect. They could extend outward, but the walls themselves would reduce the outward-facing efficacy. I had no idea how effective that would be, so I just shrugged. “Maybe?”

“Well, we’ll hope for that. Either way, there’s nothing much we can do at this point,” Elora noted. “Not without more danger, at least.”

“Do you think many people saw through the disguise?” Patrick asked. “Plenty will have, but it will be difficult to pin anything on the personbeneath the mask. Still, people will know, and they’ll know his last known associates.”

Farren frowned. “Was that me? Am I a known associate?”

“Probably not,” I told her. “That I’m aware of, at least.”

Farren nodded sagely. “That’s probably a good thing. I don’t like associating with disasters more than I need to. Especially ones that kill so many politicians. Always messy.”

I frowned at Farren. “I’m pretty sure the only casualty there was Kurita, and even that was debatable, given his condition.”

Farren blinked. “Oh. Has the killing only just started?” She lifted her wrist as if to check a watch, but she wasn’t wearing one, then mumbled something like, “Better to get going while we can, then.”

“Hold on, Miss Farren.” Elora stepped closer. “What sort of future catastrophe are you speaking of? Is there still time to avert it?”

“Hm? Oh, not really. I mean, you might be able to do some stuff, but once Showoff gets with the stabbing, the screaming should start just about…”

She trailed off. We all waited briefly for any sort of dramatic scream, but I didn’t hear anything.

“Acoustics in here are terrible,” Farren mumbled. “Anyway, enjoy the ruinshades!”

She clapped her hands, there was a flash of light, then—Farren was still standing with us, as if nothing had happened. She looked vaguely perplexed. “Oh.” She paused for a moment. “Huh. I’m in danger.”

I gave her a look of disbelief. In the meantime, Elora walked to the wall of her room, reaching toward it with a frown. “The teleportation blocking runes weren’t supposed to prevent people from leaving the spire.”

“But they are now?” I asked. “That’s odd. I’ll see if I can fix them, but—”

“No time,” Farren said. “Take a look at the mana in walls, see what yousee.”

I walked over to the room’s walls, activating Detect Aura. The mana saturation in the room was tremendous. I couldn’t see anything special about the walls that way, but that presumably wasn’t what she meant. So, I reached for the wall and…Improved Identify.

I frowned as information flooded my mind. Much of it was the same as last time I’d checked, in terms of general composition, but the overall manalevels had climbed higher…in every type. And, even as I recast the spell to double-check, the mana saturation had increased further, which meant…“Oh, no.” I whispered.

The bomber hadn’t been content to stop after their attempt on the train.

No, they had one last trick to play.

And we were standing inside the bomb.

