CHAPTER XXXIII – SHADES OF TRAGEDY

Kuro Nightshade, the third member of Mary and Rose’s team, stood near the doorway, a vortex of darkness hovering in the air just behind him. “You’re quite right, Mary.” Kuro nodded. “I died right in front of you. No smoke, no mirrors. As it happens,” he shifted his gigantic hat slightly, “for people much more advanced than we are, death is a solved problem.”

“I’m not sure I’d call being possessed by a spectral being from another world a ‘solution’.” Len hefted her hammer, warily scanning around for more threats.

“Well, it wouldn’t be for you. You’re not quite flesh and blood like us, are you? Do you even have a shade? I’d be very curious—”

Len vanished and appeared right behind Kuro, slapping a hand on his shoulder. “Sleep.”

His head slumped down briefly…then shadows built at his feet, swirling ominously. Len jumped backward just before the wave of blackness rushed upward in a fountain, enveloping the area around where both she and Kuro had been standing, then swarming to follow in pursuit of Len’s retreat.

Patrick shot forward in a blur, swinging Bright Reflection straight through the darkness. It parted in the wake of his light, but not so easily as the shades — and, worse, the sword’s brilliance seemed to dim.

That’s not just shadow, I realized. “It’s void sorcery! Don’t let it touch anything magic—”

Len’s eyes widened as a spear of void lashed out from a nearby wall, straight toward her, but she managed to raise a barrier before it crashed into her. The barrier flared and cracked, but it held, even as more spears formed across the room’s floor.

Kuro’s head came back up. He cracked his neck. “That was a nice nap. I’ll advise against anything else like that, though. I’m much friendlier when I’m in full control.”

With a clap of his hands, the spears surged across the floor. I had to jump to the side to avoid one as it moved, but they didn’t attack — they simply moved to hover around him.

“Now, as I was saying. A solid spirit might not be able to benefit from what we’re offering, but as for the rest of you…”

“Kuro.” Mary’s eyes were filled with tears. “I’m…I’m so sorry for what happened to you. It’s…”

“Not your fault. You fought, you lived. That’s what I would have wanted. Now, of course, with greater context, I would have known that if you’d died along with me, you would have benefitted from…hey, stop that.” He turned toward Len, who was forming some kind of crystal in her off-hand. “Look, I’m just trying to have a conversation here.”

“There’s a ritual going that is about to blow up this entire spire,” I told him. “If you want to have a chat, you can help us shut that down.”

“Oh, that?” He seemed to ponder the suggestion, then shook his head. “Sorry, can’t help you. I didn’t like that plan, for what it’s worth. Too many irretrievable bodies. I can offer to get you out of here, though. You aren’t the ones he wants.”

“Sylvia Sanctum’s attempts to kill Mary earlier say otherwise,” Len noted.

Kuro blinked. “What? That’s not…” He frowned. “I suppose bombs do kill people, sometimes, when they’re as fragile as you are. An oversight, I suppose. But you know, if you were like me—”

I backed up toward Mary, both to protectively stand in front of her, and because our opponent’s chattiness gave me the time to plan something.

Mary had lowered her bow and was shaking, which wasn’t a good sign. Patrick was standing at the ready. Len had paused whatever she was doing with the crystal, but she still had a half-formed vessel of energy in one hand and her hammer in the other.

“I didn’t really know you,” I told him, “but given that you’ve compared us, and so has Vermillion, you probably would agree that someone is going to be less persuasive about their motives when it’s obvious they’re mentally compromised.”

“Reasonable,” Kuro noted. “But I’m largely in charge right now, as long as you don’t try to put me to sleep again. Sure, there’s an exterior influence, but my knowledge was sufficiently valuable that I’m of greater use when I remain myself.”

“Think on that,” I told him. “What happens when you’re not useful?Your autonomy could be taken away at any time.”

He frowned. “Can’t say I love that, but you do realize that visages could do the same thing, right? Any sufficiently powerful entity could rob us of our will. At least in this situation, I know what my bargaining chips are — and I’m more powerful than I’ve ever been. Therefore, I’m safer.”

“There’s a distinction between hypothetical capability to control someone and being known for doing it to entire planets worth of people.” I wanted to reach into the bag at my side, but he was looking straight at me, so I needed to wait for a window of opportunity. “You can’t really believe that the situation you’re in right now is comparable to being an ordinary human on Kaldwyn, can you?”

“No, not really. But I died as a normal human, Corin. Because this society isn’t working. Can you blame me for wanting to give another approach a shot? It’s not like I have any good alternatives.”

“What if we could free you?” I asked him.

Kuro chuckled, kicking his foot across the ground. “Stronger people than you have tried to fix the so-called ‘vek taint’. Not a very nice term for having a shade co-inhabit your body, by the way, but I get it. Anyway, you don’t have the means, and even if you did, I’m not like someone who got scratched and taken over. I was dead-dead. You get rid of the shade, I just go back to being dead.”

“That…is a bit of a problem,” I admitted. “But if you’ll surrender, and help us stop this, I promise to dedicate time—”

“No can do.” He shook his head. “Now, if you’ll surrender...”

“No.” Patrick stepped toward him, his sword’s light shining brighter. It might have recharged a bit after the brush with the void, or maybe it was his own power flowing through it. “We won’t. Never.”

“A shame.” Kuro turned toward him. “I’ve heard Rosie likes you, so I’ll do my best to keep you intact.”

While he turned to Patrick, I finally had a moment of distraction. I reached into my bag and pulled something out, shoving it backward toward Mary. “Get this on him. It’ll help.”

Mary blinked through tears. “I…I don’t know if I…”

There was no more time to argue. Kuro lifted a hand, and the spears of void shivered around him.

Patrick charged in, blurring with speed—And slammed straight into an invisible wall. He stumbled backward, stunned, and spears lashed at him from all directions.

“Sorry,” Kuro said. “You weren’t the only one buying time.”

Patrick was too startled to react, but Len cursed and rushed in the way of the void spears, making a one-handed swing with her hammer. The first few spears it struck blasted backward, but after the fourth, her hammer began to flicker, and another caused it to vanish entirely.

Then she was wheeling back, more spears piecing through the floor to grab her legs—Which began to flicker, just as her hammer had.

Oh, resh. She’s basically solid mana. If those things get a good grip…I shoved the item from my hand into Mary’s, then rushed forward, sweeping Selys-Lyann low. A wave of cutting spirit mana crashed into the spears around Len’s legs, slicing through them. Len stumbled backward, blood flowing freely from where the spears had touched.

“You okay?” I asked, closing the distance to stand by Len. I didn’t like leaving Mary on her own, but Kuro clearly wasn’t focusing on her.

“Could be better. Hold him off for a minute? This is—” Kuro laughed. “I can hear you. I’m not giving you time.”

He waved a hand and a pool of darkness appeared below us. I shoved Len to the side and jumped as the liquid shadow shot upward, enveloping the area where we’d been standing. It surged toward me.

I sent a blast of ice from Selys-Lyann’s blade into it, but only a small segment of it froze. The rest flowed right around the block of solid shadow, pursuing me as I hastily retreated.

As I retreated, Patrick rushed toward Kuro, lashing out at the translucent barrier around him.

“Not a chance,” Kuro told him, shaking his head. “And you wouldn’t want to succeed, anyway. My barrier is linked to the tower’s mana supply. If you somehow had the stopping power necessary to burst through it, you’d cripple the whole structure. All the enchantments on this thing, it isn’t structurally stable. You’d be buried alive.”

Patrick took a step back, pausing. “Huh. That’s a good plan.” Then he raised his sword and pointed it straight at Kuro’s chest. “One problem.”

“Oh?”

“I can see you, and you can see me. Which means…” Patrick’s sword flared with brilliant light.

Kuro’s eyes widened. Then, just before his wave of shadows reached me, he made a yanking motion in the air and it swept out of my way—Just a hint too slowly to stop Patrick’s blast of light from shining straight through the barrier without resistance. I’d fixed the little “light magic passing through barriers problem” for my sigils, but Kuro hadn’t.

Kuro rocked back as the blast of light hit him, burning straight through a shield sigil and a shroud to strike him in the chest. Patrick stepped forward, strengthening the beam as light flooded from his own hands into the sword’s hilt—Then Kuro glared at him and spoke in another voice, smoke flooding out of his lips. “Eru volis mar sharu taris.”

Bright Reflection’s light guttered. My shield sigils flickered. That was only the beginning.

Virtually every magical item in the room turned off.

I gasped as regeneration functions in my sigils ceased, my injuries suddenly feeling more real. But that wasn’t the worst thing—Len was bleeding from…well, too many places.

She fell to a knee, gasping, clutching at her chest. A half-formed crystal fell from her limp fingers.

“That spell…” she mumbled. “That’s not…” She collapsed a moment later, insensate.

Kuro coughed, pointing at her with a hand wreathed in darkness. He was pale, struggling, his face covered in sweat. But he was still inside the barrier — his strange spell, whatever it was, hadn’t neutralized it. “You won’t get to solve that mystery. Maybe the real one will avenge you someday, if you’re lucky. Eru volar—”

“Stop it!” Mary shouted.

There was no attack. She just yelled at him, tears streaming down her face. And when he turned to her, he looked…conflicted?He finished the spell anyway. “—Shen taris.”

Blue-white flames blasted out of Kuro’s outstretched hand, straight for Len.

Patrick, holding a powerless Bright Reflection in his hands, jumped straight in the way. Mary screamed as the flames enveloped over him—I rushed to Len. I knew what I was seeing. This wasn’t a suicidal sacrifice move. Patrick might have made ones in the past, sure—But I knew Patrick. I knew who had trained him.

And throwing fire at Meltlake’s student was a serious mistake.

As I reached Len, I grabbed her and cast something I hadn’t used on anyone else. I didn’t have time to ask about it. I knew what she was, and the theory was sound.

“Spirit Art: Rapid Recovery.”

Spirit mana flowed from my body into Len’s, washing over her wounds. Her bleeding slowed, even as the flames around Patrick continued to gather—Then collapsed into a single burning ball, held over his right hand.

“I’d say that’s impossible,” Kuro said, grimacing as he pushed himself up, “but given that you just did it, that would make me sound like an idiot. So, well done, very impressive. I won’t be taking any more chances with you.” He clapped his hands. “Eru volar—”

Patrick held the flaming sphere above one hand and pointed his other hand at Kuro. A blast of light lanced from Patrick’s hand, forcing Kuro to abandon his spell and conjure a field of void to block the light.

“Annoying. I—”

Bright Reflection’s light flared back to life. Kuro wobbled, looking from side-to-side, and then whispered something into the air.

A pair of humanoid shadows appeared on opposite sides of the room. Both looked more substantial than the shades we’d fought previously — they were wearing bone-like white armor and carrying spears of the same substance.

I didn’t think either were a serious threat. But one of them was in the doorway, and the other appeared right behind Mary, who still wasn’t fighting.

That latter shade raised a spear—And, of course, Patrick rushed to help, leaving Len and myself vulnerable.

The other shade charged straight at us. I hastily cast a standard regeneration spell on Len, then stood up and parried the first spear-thrust—And grinned as the bone-white spear I’d blocked began to turn to ice.

Almost all of my items had turned off, in spite of their anti-tampering enchantments. Even the best anti-tampering couldn’t do much about a spell that simply dispersed mana in general, which is presumably what Kuro’s effect had done—But the problem with that kind of dispelling effect was that, as we’d seen with Mary’s fight against the Pale King, you can’t dispel anything that’s got too much mana. My higher-level items were safer. I didn’t have a lot of Citrine-level stuff, but my Belt of Swords was still working, presumably my armor was…And Selys-Lyann?Not only did the sword have its own mana supply, it was also linked into mine. Bright Reflection had been the main target of the dispelling effect, so it had been hit harder, but any soul-binding item was a lot tougher for a dispel effect to crack.

Which is all to say that I wasn’t as helpless as I’d felt a moment before, since my opponent’s spear was freezing over. I dodged the next swing entirely, then blasted myself forward with a quick jump spell, slamming my sword into the shade’s armored chestplate.

As expected, my sword didn’t cut through, but the ice spreading across it slowed the shade down. A hail of void spears manifested in the air right behind me, but I sensed them quickly enough to blast myself aside before they pin-cushioned me, then countered them with a blast of intense light from my left hand. That probably wouldn’t have worked with the first set, but when I dodged the next spear-strike to look at Kuro, he was barely standing and breathing heavily. Bright Reflection’s blast had taken a lot out of him, and he wasn’t running at full strength on any of his attacks anymore.

Patrick was engaged with the other shade, dodging and parrying, but he couldn’t get a clean hit in of his own. He wasn’t as practiced at melee combat as I was, nor did he have my Haste spell or training for extra speed. He’d blocked the thing from attacking Mary, but now he was simply falling back between attacks, still holding the flaming sphere over one of his hands.

“Switch and burn!” I told him.

He caught my meaning immediately.

As he dodged the next swing, I surged toward his opponent on a blast of transference mana and away from mine, leaving the shade that had been attacking me momentarily off-balance.

I landed behind Patrick’s opponent, and jammed my sword straight into a gap in the shade’s armor. Selys-Lyann flashed bright, my own mana flowing through it, and surged inside the shade, freezing it solid.

As that shade froze, shattering when it struck the ground, Patrick flew past me on a burst of air, then slammed the stolen flaming sphere straight into my original opponent’s chest. The frozen armor buckled and exploded as the sphere impacted it, then the creature’s chest simply vanished as the flames consumed it.

Both creatures burst into smoke. “Annoying.”

Kuro clapped his hands. Four more shades appeared around the room, then eight.

I drew in a deep breath. My dispelled magical items were very gradually starting to kick back on, regenerating their mana, but Kuro appeared to be recovering faster—Or, based on the way that blackness was bleeding into the veins across his face, perhaps simply pushing himself beyond reasonable limits.

Patrick and I lunged for two of the still-forming shades, trying to cut through them before they solidified. I managed to cut one, but Patrick had slowed down too much after his Body of Dawn had faded. The half-formed monster grabbed his sword, hissing and screaming as the light burned it, but that allowed another shade to form and prepare to strike from just behind him.

An arrow of light from Mary blasted straight through its face before it had a chance.

Mary had her bow in hand now. Her eyes were still red, her face still tear-stained, but she’d gathered her resolve.

Not enough, I considered, even as she loosed another arrow and banished another shade out of existence.

Our enemies were appearing too quickly. As long as Kuro was standing, as long as the barrier was standing…The barrier.

He’d made it clear that breaking it wasn’t going to work because it was, supposedly, tied to the tower. But if there was a bond, it could be severed.

Sometimes I learn the worst things from my mentors.

I rushed toward the barrier, ducked under a swing from a shade, and pressed my hands against the ground.

There were no visible runes — Kuro hadn’t been that lazy. There was nothing for me to touch to activate the spell the way that I ordinarily did.

But what a spell like that did was create a connection based on the mana flowing between a person and a target. If I couldn’t see a valid target, but I knew that one was present…A mana thread wouldn’t have been enough. But I’d been training mana manipulation since I’d first gotten started with my attunement, and I’d trained with ambient mana further for the Emerald Trials.

I didn’t just make a thread. I hurled a mana web around the entire barrier, sending it down, around, and even permeating into the stone itself.

And then—Analyze Attunement Composition.

Information flooded my mind, both foreign and familiar. I’d hit something, a rune or something like it, but if I searched—Well, I would have found something eventually, if a spear didn’t slam straight into my back.

I was, once again, incredibly lucky to be wearing actual physical armor under my shirt. Still, it hit me hard enough that I briefly lost my concentration on the spell.

An arrow blasted that shade a moment later and it wheeled back. I grunted, sending it stumbling with a blast of ice at its feet.

As it hit the ground, I grabbed a spear from one of the other shades, yanked it forward, then blasted it in the back to slam it into another.

The room was nearly filled with shades now, chaotic enough that such moves were possible, but I couldn’t count on another making that mistake. And while Kuro had been focusing on summoning more shades before, I was right next to him now—He wasn’t going to give me time to do any complicated reading. Not at that speed, anyway.

I took a deep breath.

Somehow, I always end up doing the ‘never do this’ thing. Here we go.

Analyze Attunement Compression— And…Accelerated Computation.

Images flashed through my mind. I sorted them.

It was painfully simple, now. Or…maybe just painful. My head was hurting, which was not at all a good sign.

Still, as I shuffled through phantasmal papers in my mind, translating, sorting—There.

I ripped a page apart.

The barrier collapsed just as a spear of void blasted through my abdomen. I fell backward, clutching my bleeding torso, my head slamming hard against the stone ground.

Patrick screamed something, but he was amidst a horde of shades, pressed back nearly against one of the walls.

Mary fired an arrow straight into the first shade that loomed over me, poised to strike, but another was quick to take its place.

And Kuro was raising both hands now, a halo of spears of void floating in his hands. “Try not to move too much, Cadence. This process goes a lot more easily if you still have a head.”

His spears began to spin above him, whirling faster and faster, until a green glow began to spread across the room. Vines grew across the stone, enveloping shades and yanking them downward, the green light burning deep into their bodies.

I blinked, turning toward the source of the light.

Len was struggling to her feet, still bleeding in a dozen places, but holding a now fully completed green crystal in her hand. “It’s not the right season, but this’ll have to do.”

The crystal in her hands flared, and an all-consuming aura of verdant light passed over her body, washing away wounds with its light. When it cleared, her body seemed to solidify further, her crimson hair shifting to green and brown, and the image of a stone-like pattern playing across her exposed skin.

Kuro saw the demonstration and frowned, pointing a finger. His spinning whirlwind of spears froze, then pointed straight at her. “That’s your plan? A fake Lydia uses a fake Vendria? If that’s the best you can do—”

Len punched the air. There was a crack like thunder striking, then Kuro flew backward, crashing into one of the tower walls and blasting straight through it.

I blinked at the display.

Blood ran down Len’s nose. She coughed, falling to a knee. Patrick rushed to her side. “That was amazing! Do you think you—”

“No, he’ll be back in a second.” Len shook her head. “We need to get out of here. Mary, come with us.”

“I…I…” Mary stammered, glancing out the wall where Kuro had been hurled.

“Sorry about this.” I walked over to Mary and took her hand, then pulled her toward Len. She walked with me without resistance.

The shadows in the room began to widen into jaws around us, preparing to snap shut.

Then Len — if she was still even Len — clapped her hands as we reached her.

We moved.

***After teleporting, we found ourselves in the chamber where we’d fought Sylvia Sanctum, next to the still-active ritual that was overcharging the spire. Black cracks had begun to form in the floor around the ritual area, which was never a good sign.

Patrick scanned the room. “Looks clear. Mary, can you dispel this?” “I…I guess I’ll try.” She took a wobbling step forward.

Kuro appeared right in front of her, in a swirl of darkness, shaking his head. There was blood splattered across his forehead, marring the mark of the Sun Eater, but he didn’t look angry. Instead, his expression showed only disappointment. “I can’t let you do that.”

“K…Kuro.” Mary took a step back. “Please. If you don’t let us stop this, everyone here will die. I’ll die.”

“I told you, I can get you out of here. Rosie, too, if you tell me where to find her. We’ve still got a solid two or three minutes before the place blows. And it’s not like the people in here are our friends, Mary. I mean, we have a couple, but—”

“Listen to yourself, Kuro.” Mary shook her head as the rest of us took positions to fight. “You never would have talked like this when you were…”

“Alive?” He shrugged. “Human culture has failed me more than once, Mary. We ran across the ocean to get away from one atrocity and ran straight into another. You were there for both. Playing by the rules these people set? It’s not working. But we could clear out the people here, start over with a clean slate. Make something new, better.”

“What you’re talking about isn’t better than what we had to deal with, it’s worse, Kuro.” Mary seemed to gather herself, striding forward, trails across her face from where she’d been crying. “Murdering everyone youdon’t like on an entire continent? That’s not a ‘clean slate’. That’s just genocide wearing a silly hat.”

“It’d be a whole planet, actually,” he raised a hand, “just to be clear.

And while it might technically be a little bit of genocide—”

“Stop, Kuro.” She set her bow down, stepping closer and opening her arms. “Please. Don’t talk like this. Come back to me. I need you.”

“Mary…” He gave her a soft smile. “Don’t worry. I’m not going to hurt you. I’m right here.”

He stepped into her embrace, pulling her tight. “Kuro…that’s too tight, I…I can’t br—”

Shadows swarmed across the walls. Patrick swung around and sent a blast of light into a massive shade that was beginning to manifest, but it barely budged. Len tried to stand up, but wobbled on her feet.

I charged straight at Kuro, my sword raised high.

Kuro released Mary with one arm to point at me. A line of pure void shot through the air. I twisted to avoid it, but even with Improved Haste active, it still connected, tearing through my defenses with ease and leaving a bleeding hole in my right arm.

I hissed at the pain, but pushed forward.

Jump.

My sword came down. Kuro caught it in his hand, stopping the sword’s movement with ease. Frost spread across his fingers, but he ignored it.

“Won’t be long now,” he whispered to Mary. “I’ll hold you until—”

She squirmed in his one armed-grip, coughing, and finally managed to slip the ring on his finger.

“What’s—” He blinked at the band, his eyes widening, then released the grip on my sword to reach down with his frozen fingers—“Stop moving. Don’t resist the enchantment.”

Kuro froze in place, ice still spreading across his fingertips.

Mary shivered in his grip, then slipped herself free, gawking. “W…what did that—”

“That’s the Ring of Derek Controlling,” I told her. “Long story, not a lot of time. Kuro, I command you to tell us anything you can about disarming the ritual. You may move only for that purpose.”

“I…don’t know any way to disarm it, aside from dispelling it. That’s why they wanted Mary out of play,” he told us. “And it might be too late for that, given the amount of—”

“Quiet,” I told him. He shut up.

“Mary, do you think you can dispel this ritual?” “I…I don’t know. I’ll…try.”

“I will assist her.” Len stepped forward, wiping away blood from her nose. “I know something of the Sun Eater’s foul magic.”

The voice she spoke with was not her own, but I had no time for questions or concerns. If Len was controlled by something else, it had been her own invocation that had done it, and I had some ideas on what she was up to.

Mary and Len stepped closer to the circle.

“Kuro, dismiss the shadows, void, and any other monsters or spells you’re conjuring. You may move and use magic only for that purpose.”

Kuro hissed, then closed his eyes. The shadows around the room vanished just before one was about to strike Patrick from behind.

Patrick lowered his sword, breathing heavily, then rushed to guard the two ritualists.

“Archer,” Mary whispered to her bow, “I’m sorry, I know you’re weak, but I’m going to need your help with this one.”

Her bow glimmered brighter for just a moment, as if in response, then Mary knelt down at the ritual’s edge. She reached out, her bow flying to one hand, and took Len’s hand in the other.

“Let us begin.”

I raised my sword to Kuro’s neck, just in case.

Then as Mary began to chant in an unfamiliar language, an aura of purest white spread out from her body and enveloped the room.

***I don’t know how much time passed as Mary and Len chanted around that circle of blackness. It could have been minutes or hours. But finally, a tempo began to build, the air seeming to quake around us—And then all at once, it settled, and the blackness in the floor began to recede into the black portal hovering in the air.

Mary spoke louder then, standing, and finally, she raised her bow in both hands, a single shimmering arrow forming at the drawstring.

When she released it, it quivered in mid-air, struggling to push forward until Len placed a hand on Mary’s back. Then verdant power flooded through Mary’s body and, as she gasped at the sudden surge of strength, thearrow shot forward and breached the darkness. The portal cracked and shattered like glass—And then, finally, the world was still.

Len collapsed to the ground, the green and brown fading from her hair, the stone-like pattern vanishing from her skin.

Mary breathed an exhausted sigh, her face and skin covered with sweat. “It’s done.”

“Not quite.” I took a breath, then handed Selys-Lyann to Patrick. “What are you doing?”

I reached into my pouch and pulled out an etching rod. “Remodeling. This tower’s lack of capacity runes for every mana type is a very serious design flaw.”

