PREVIEW CHAPTER – EDGE OF THE DREAM

I saw the threats before I hit the ground. Six bat-like koshari, their nature apparent through both their large size and their wings formed from elemental power. Two fire-winged beasts, two ice, two lightning. A classic set. They would use their element to attack from a distance or alter the terrain.

Even as I descended, the first wave of their assault was pouring toward me. I tore through fire and lightning with ease, but the ice froze against my sword’s blade, and I had to smash it against the ground to clear the growing frost.

That opened me up to the charge from the next of the monsters — a massive bull-like creature with four horns.

The corridor was about twenty feet wide with walls of carved stone, not unlike what I’d read of des’vahi mountain pathways. Support pillars were present every ten feet or so, holding up the ceiling, which was maybe fifteen feet up.

I jumped behind one of the support pillars, hoping to arrest the bull monster’s charge. That technically worked, but not in a “bull conveniently rams the pillar and stuns itself” sort of way like I’d expected. Instead, the moment I got behind the pillar, the bull abruptly stopped and stood up on its hind legs, then began to inhale.

Breath attack, I processed immediately. I charged to close the distance immediately.

My unexpected response was the only thing that saved me from the ambush, as a green-skinned humanoid lashed out from the shadows behind the pillar with a jagged obsidian knife.

Even as the knife missed, the small humanoid vanished back into the darkness. That creature, at least, I recognized with a hint of concern — agen, one of the buried that was descended from The Frog, the Origin Beast of Poison.

Such creatures were the pinnacle of poison themselves — their skin, saliva, and blood were all hideously dangerous in different ways. There were different types of gen, but I didn’t have an instant to think about that, because the bull exhaled before I could finish my charge. The creature’s breath wasn’t flame or ice like I might have expected, but rather a cloud of some kind of gas.

One of the bats was in the way. It turned to stone as the gas flowed over it, then fell to the ground and shattered.

That’s bad, I considered as I rushed straight into it.

I flared deflection-aspected sword essence around me, blasting away the gas as it approached my skin. Then, pushing straight through the gas cloud, I swung my sword across the bull’s chest.

I didn’t bother to wait to see what happened next. One swing, then I was running beyond the bull, getting as far as possible from the petrifying cloud.

I heard the bull collapse behind me in two pieces, but I couldn’t feel any relief. I’d hit something in the ground that made a click.

I jumped forward. It was the wrong instinct. A scything blade swung down from the ceiling in front of me, and now I was in the middle of its path.

I swung horizontally, tearing the blade in half, and sending a flicker of deflection-aspected essence into it on contact.

The two halves of the severed scythe flew wide. One slammed harmlessly into a wall, embedding deep into it. The other, however, tore one of the still-pursuing bat-like monsters in half.

I laughed as I landed.

Got you!That was, predictably, where the pit I’d jumped to avoid was actually located.

The ground dropped out beneath me, revealing a pit of gleaming spikes. I slammed my sword into the wall as I fell with the flat side facing up, my arms jarred by the force of the impact, but it wasn’t a long descent. Even with my quick reaction, my boots brushed the top of the spikes, and the elementally-themed bats were rapidly catching up to me.

Sword Hand.

I pulled myself upward with one arm on my sword, then cut into the wall with my Sword Hand, holding myself in place with that. Then, I twisted my actual sword and cleaved upward, rotating it to form a hand- hold again.

One blade after another, I climbed, but I could hear a scraping sound as the pit’s cover began to close above me. I reached for the closing ceiling as I approached. If I could get a grip on it, I could pull myself up—A blast of lightning struck me in the back. Electricity flowed through my body. It wasn’t a strong attack — the bats were Candle-level at best — but it was enough. My fingers slipped free of the stone.

The ceiling closed above me.

…And the walls began to close in.

Oh, come on. Are you kidding me?I’d managed to keep hold of my sword, so I was still hanging suspended over the spikes, just below the now-closed roof. I did what came naturally, next—I punched the ceiling, blasting a hole straight through the stone. Again, then again.

The walls closed faster and faster. Shatter.

I smashed my fist upward, channeling my Shattering Sword through it.

The ceiling exploded into pebbles.

I hauled myself up through it, tearing my sword straight through the stone wall as I climbed.

The frog-like gen was there when I came up. He jumped in with a lunge.

I was in no mood for his antics, now.

My free hand caught his wrist, a hint of scabbard-aspected essence forming around my hand to protect myself from any contact poison that might pass through my gloves.

Then, as he attempted to slip back with panic in his eyes, I brought my sword down. It passed through the creature’s body with no resistance.

Then, I spun, hurling the rapidly de-materializing half of the gen I was still holding onto into the lightning bat that had shot me while I was climbing. The bat screeched as the body slammed into it, falling to the ground. I walked over, ripped a shattered half of the scythe trap out of the wall, and brought it down on the fallen bat.

The other bats fled after that. Then, briefly, I was alone.

I cracked my neck, rested my sword against my shoulder, and continued walking down the hall.

All that killing and somehow, the blade still shined pure and clear.

In retrospect, perhaps I should have seen that as a warning sooner than I did.

***There were many types of Buried. Each was, in theory, a form of monster descended from — or at least created by — one of the Origin Beasts. They’d all been sealed beneath the world after their progenitor, the Maker of Monsters himself, had been defeated.

I knew of many types of Buried. Rashan, the eight-legged panther-like beasts with skin that resisted cuts and piercing. Illkain, eye-stealing shapeshifters. Vosh, humanoid serpents of stone and steel.

I’d studied the Buried in depth, both due to Gramp’s love of history lessons and my own interest in knowing monsters and their weaknesses. I wouldn’t say I was a scholar of the Buried, but I’d like to think that I had about as good of an idea as a professional monster hunter, given the advantages of my upbringing and my close proximity to where the Buried had been sealed.

I had no idea what the creature standing at the end of the tunnel was.

It looked vaguely like some kind of great ape — an orangutan, maybe— except it was about twice as big as it should have been and had about three times too many arms.

Each of the six arms held a colossal sword, and on its massive head, it wore a spiked crown.

“Greetings, great one,” I said. “You appear to be the lord of this place. I am seeking pass—”

He threw a sword at me. That was rude. I was talking, and also, that was no way to properly treat a sword.

I swept my sword to the side, attempting to deflect the projectile with the smallest possible movement I could, like Red had taught me.

I’d underestimated the force a twelve-foot ape-beast could use to throw a weapon. But more than that, I hadn’t expected the magic of the blade that made it weight more than a hundred times what it should have.

When the flat of my sword pressed against the thrown sword, my blade didn’t even nudge it. Before it could skewer me, though, I pushed harder, and the force knocked me out of the sword’s trajectory.

I stumbled from the sudden shift, then sensed the sword essence of the blade shift behind me. It had flipped around as it passed me, and now it was sweeping spinning as flew backward toward the ape, like a giant bladed boomerang.

I jumped on top of it, stumbling briefly as I steadied itself, then rode the spinning blade as it flew back toward the ape’s hand.

The ape snorted audibly as it reached out for the flying blade.

I leapt off the flying sword and brought my sword down in a rapid swing, straight for the monster’s head.

Three swords flashed upward at the same time. One parried my own sword, my silver meeting steel, and the other two swept straight at my chest.

I tucked my legs upward, letting one sword pass underneath, then kicked the other in the flat, trying to slam it into its own wielder. The sword flew back as I’d hoped, but only an inch — this sword didn’t behave like the one he’d thrown, but the ape was still massively strong, even with a single arm.

I’d barely reached the ground when two other arms were swinging at me. I parried them both with my own, but the force of the blow launched me backward, sending me skidding across the ground.

Six arms. Six swords. I don’t know what you are, but I’m going to call you an ashur-ape.

I ducked another swing that came without warning, a single sword that tore through the air above me, in spite of the ashur-ape now standing more than a dozen feet away.

He didn’t follow up that attack with another from the other swords, though, and I began to see the puzzle.

Middle-right sword can perform cuts at a distance. Classic air slash technique. Top-right sword throughs the weighted boomerang sword.

As if responding to my thoughts, he hurled the boomerang sword again. This time, I didn’t try to stop it. Instead, I danced around it and tried to grab the hilt with my free hand, hoping whatever enchantments on it would respond to a new wielder and allow me to hurl it back.

I felt something as my fingers brushed the hilt, a connection, but I couldn’t secure my grip quickly enough before it ripped free. Then, I was forced to jump as the ashur-ape swung downward with his ranged-cutting sword, cleaving a broad cleft into the ground beneath me.

The cleft wasn’t deep, but my ankle hit the side of it, causing me to stumble as I landed.

That nearly cost me dearly as the boomerang-sword swung backward, right toward my neck.

I leaned back, avoiding the cleave, then raised my own sword in the way before it could swing back around. The next spin of the sword crashed into my own, causing me to trip and fall flat on my back.

I hit the ground hard.

And the ashur-ape moved forward for the first time, leaping straight above me, and bringing five swords down at once.

I rolled on the ground, five swords smashing downward in a series of cuts that I desperately avoided. I swung upward at the ape’s ankle, but it simply stepped disdainfully over my swing, then tried to bury my sword beneath its heel.

I pulled my sword back before it could, then rolled on the ground and hopped to my feet just in time to catch another horizontal swing from the middle-left sword — which hurled me backward straight into one of the cavern walls.

It knocked the wind out of me. I coughed, falling to my knees. That meant that the next ranged swing ended up cleaving the wall right above me, rather than tearing me in half.

I’m losing, I realized.

I grinned, tasting blood on my teeth.

I want more.

I charged.

*** A testing swing at the knees, parried. A swing up toward the face, dodged.

A lunge straight at the chest, deflected.

My hands flowed in a rhythm of movement, my feet shifting as I pressed my assault, but I wasn’t making headway. Even with superior technique and speed, I was fighting with one sword against six, and anyactual gap in our swordsmanship was less significant than I would have hoped.

Has he been training down here? Are there more sword-wielding monsters?I didn’t have time to consider it in detail.

The middle-left sword swept at me and I had to shift my sword beneath it. Absence of blade was a strategy for avoiding unwanted contact between weapons — such as, for example, when your opponent’s sword seemed to discharge a burst of force on contact. When his blade crashed into the ground next to me rather than my sword, stone exploded on contact, leaving a wide furrow.

I lunged in again, trying to exploit the opening, but one sword being in the ground just meant that five were still available. He deflected my sword easily.

I side-stepped his next swing, trying to inch in closer. He was strong, fierce, but sloppy. If I could keep tying up his attacks with the terrain—Another sword slammed into the ground at my side and I felt a smile cross my face, right up until strange stalagmites of crimson metal shot up from beneath my feet.

I’d like to say I danced backward or something equally elegant, but really, I half-stepped and half-stumbled. One of the spikes left a gash along the back of my right leg as I retreated, but I managed to twist to avoid letting it pierce all the way through my thigh as it rose from the ground.

Even so, it was a significant wound, and the type that could turn a fight rapidly into a failure.

Like, for example, when his middle-left sword flashed straight at the middle of my face.

If I’d been stunned by my wound…well, I don’t know what would have happened, exactly. In theory, the tests were supposed to non-lethal, but accidents happened. Maybe some ancient magic would have teleported me out the moment the blade brushed my face.

I absolutely couldn’t count on that.

Fortunately, I wasn’t stunned. If anything, the wound had renewed my focus.

I braced myself, favoring my injured leg, and met that sword with my own.

I knew what would come next, because I’d identified which sword he was using. The swing blasted me back with explosive force, carrying me toward one of the chamber walls.

I braced to catch myself with my good leg, ready to launch myself off the wall and straight into another attack—But the ashur-ape wasn’t going to stop with a single attack at a time. He slammed another sword into the wall. The attack was nowhere near me, but it was the same one he’d used a moment before — top left.

Oh, no.

I slammed my sword into the ground to stop my movement just before the spikes shot out of the wall in front of me. I couldn’t completely stop my momentum, and I didn’t feel like being impaled, so I swept my left hand upward.

Sword Hand.

I cleaved through the protruding spikes before they could impact me, then heard something shifting to my side—The ashur-ape was swinging again. Middle-right.

Still staggering from a rough landing, I dismissed my Sword Hand instantly and grabbed my sword’s hilt with both hands, ripping it up from the ground and slicing through the wave of cutting force. His attack ripped to pieces around me, dissipating harmlessly.

I laughed. This was so much fun!I gave the ashur-ape a winning smile as I stepped closer, ready for his next move.

There must have been something about that smile, because the ashur- ape took a single step back.

He’d switched to a guard stance. Wary.

Good instincts, but a little late.

I knew how four of his swords worked. Maybe not completely, and four swords wouldn’t be the full scope of his abilities. Even if I knew how all six functioned, he might have other powers. But I’d seen enough to change my approach, and long battles of attrition weren’t my style.

Sword essence flared around my blade.

He was big and strong, powerful and predictable.

Middle-right.

His sword struck out before I could come into reach, this time at a diagonal. I released one hand from my grip, just for a moment, andslammed an essence-bearing fist into the side of it.

The shockwave slammed into the ceiling above me, cleaving deep. Another step forward.

Top-right.

He hurled the boomerang-like sword. I stepped around the blade, grabbing the hilt with my off-hand.

Scabbard.

My hand formed a cage of scabbard-aspected essence around the sword’s grip. Force carried me a step off my path, but I maintained my grip successfully, spinning along with the sword’s motion and stepping out of the way of another middle-right sword swing. Then, I slammed the boomerang-blade into the cavern wall.

It twitched in place, as if trying to wrest itself free. I slammed a hand onto the pommel, driving it deeper, then stepped forward again.

One step, two. More power flowed through me as I stepped into the beast’s reach, which in spite of my sword’s massive size, still exceeded mine.

Middle-left.

I gripped my sword in both hands, then stepped to the side, letting the swing miss. He’d anticipated that and his top left sword was already moving, cleaving downward.

Another side-step, then…Bottom-right.

His sword came up at my legs—Then split into pieces, swarming me from all sides.

I hadn’t seen this one, didn’t know exactly how it worked, but the counter came instantly.

Deflection.

A burst of omni-directional deflection-aspected sword essence sent the blade bits flying in all directions, then I was moving, leaping as he thrust the top left sword into the ground.

My sword came down in a diagonal slash, straight for the ashur-ape’s chest.

Got you.

He opened his mouth and inhaled. Fire burned within his jaws, forming a blistering sphere in the air. My eyes widened in surprise, but I struck, even as flames roared out of his jaws.

Shattering Sheath.

My sword came down in a single clean cut.

I landed behind the ape, falling to a knee as my bad leg hit the ground, and slammed my sword into the floor to arrest my fall.

Smoke wafted off my tunic, but that was all that had reached me.

“You fought well, bearer of six swords.” I winced and pushed myself to my feet.

The ashur-ape was already vanishing behind me.

I’d only connected once, but with the Shattering Sheath, I’d struck it a thousand times.

I finally found a use for that technique, and I’d won the fight. It was a shame, though.

I sighed out loud as his swords began to vanish. I reached for the closest one, but it discorporated between my fingers.

I never did figure out what his bottom left sword did. (To be Continued in Edge of the Dream!)